FILE:COF/COF-8K-20120427161131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 17, 2012 ("Initial Form 8-K"), to provide the financial statement information referred to in parts (a) and (b) of Item 9.01 below relating to the recently completed acquisition by Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") of substantially all of the ING Direct business in the United States (the "ING Direct Acquisition"). Except as otherwise noted, all other information in the Initial Form 8-K remains unchanged.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The required audited consolidated financial statements of ING Bank, fsb as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, are included hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The required unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements relating to the ING Direct Acquisition as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Amendment No. 1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined balance sheets of Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or the "Company"), ING Bank, fsb and Other Assets and Liabilities acquired, primarily real estate, may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of December 31, 2011 and how the combined income statement may have appeared for the year ended December 31, 2011 assuming the acquisition was completed on January 1, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the acquisition on the combined balance sheet and the combined statement of income under the acquisition method of accounting with Capital One treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of ING Direct are recorded by Capital One at their estimated fair values as of the date the acquisition is completed. References to "ING Direct" refer to the business and assets of ING Bank, fsb and other assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
It is anticipated that the acquisition of ING Direct will provide Capital One with financial benefits such as expense and funding efficiencies and revenue enhancements and also result in Capital One incurring integration and restructuring expenses, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits and costs will actually be realized. These potential benefits and expenses have not been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. As required, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable; as such, any planned adjustments affecting the balance sheet, income statement, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed acquisition completion date are not included. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. The unaudited pro forma business combination adjustments for the acquisition of ING Direct include the business combination adjustments recorded when Capital One finalized its accounting for the acquisition, which was completed on February 17, 2012, based upon the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of Capital One and ING Direct.
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 combines the December 31, 2011 historical balance sheets of Capital One, ING Bank, fsb and other assets acquired and liabilities assumed, assuming the companies had been combined on December 31, 2011 under the acquisition method of accounting.
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 combines the historical income statements of Capital One and ING Bank, fsb assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2011 under the acquisition method of accounting.
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the acquisition is included as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. The historical financial statements of ING Direct have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the historical financial statements of Capital One. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("US GAAP") as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. The adoption of new or changes to existing US GAAP subsequent to the unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statement date may result in changes to the presentation of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, if material.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes the business combination adjustments of ING Direct recorded when Capital One finalized its accounting for the acquisition, which was completed on February 17, 2012, based upon the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of ING Direct as of the closing date.
The pro forma basic and diluted potential common shares were calculated using the actual weighted-average shares outstanding for Capital One for the periods presented, plus the incremental shares issued or expected to be issued, assuming the transactions occurred on January 1, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the acquisitions been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
ING Direct Acquisition
On February 17, 2012, Capital One completed the previously announced acquisition of ING Direct from ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING Direct N.V. and ING Direct Bancorp (collectively, the "ING Direct Sellers"), pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2011, by and among each of the ING Direct Sellers and Capital One. The aggregate consideration paid by the Company in the acquisition was 54,028,086 shares (the "Shares") of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of Capital One and approximately $6.3 billion in cash. ING Direct is headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware. Since launching in the U.S. in 2000, ING Direct  the operating name of ING Bank, fsb, a federally chartered savings bank  has become the largest direct bank in the United States.
The business combination was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities assumed of ING Direct were recognized at fair value, with a residual bargain purchase gain recognized to the extent the fair value of the net assets exceeded the purchase price.
On February 17, 2012, Capital One issued the Shares to ING Bank, N.V. as partial consideration for the acquisition. On February 16,
2012, Capital One settled the forward share sale transactions entered into under the letter agreements (the "Forward Sale
Agreements"), dated as of July 14, 2011, with each of Barclays Capital Inc., acting as agent for Barclays Capital PLC, and Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC relating to the public offering of 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock in July 2011 (the "Offered Shares"). Pursuant to the Forward Sale Agreements, Capital One issued the Offered Shares at settlement. The net proceeds to Capital One were at a forward sale price per share of $48.17, for a total of approximately $1.9 billion. Capital One used the proceeds, along with the issuance of the Shares and cash sourced from existing liquidity, $3.0 billion of which was raised through the senior debt offering completed in July 2011, to fund the acquisition of ING Direct.
Note 2  Pro Forma Adjustments
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the acquisition includes the unaudited pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, assuming the acquisition of ING Direct was completed on December 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011 was prepared assuming the acquisition of ING Direct was completed on January 1, 2011.
Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 54.0 million shares of Common Stock and the payment of approximately $6.3 billion in cash consideration in connection with the acquisition of ING Direct.
 
A reconciliation of the bargain purchase gain recognized as a result of the ING Direct assets acquired and liabilities assumed is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3  Core Deposit Intangibles
The pro forma business combination adjustments include the establishment of core deposit intangibles of $209 million as of December 31, 2011. The $209 million was based on a third-party valuation using a combination of ING Direct specific deposit information and industry specific benchmarks. The amortization of the core deposit intangibles resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the core deposit intangibles made in connection with the ING Direct acquisition at a statutory annual tax rate of 36.5% (in millions):
 
 


