FILE:COF/COF-8K-20120320105221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, on March 15, 2012, Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as representatives of the underwriters listed in Schedule I thereto (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell 24,442,706 shares (the "Offered Shares") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), to the Underwriters at a price of $51.14 per share. The Underwriters offered the securities to the public at variable prices (the "Offering").
The closing of the sale of the Offered Shares occurred on March 20, 2012.
The Offering was made under a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Company's automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-159085).
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 5.1
March 20, 2012
Capital One Financial Corporation
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, Virginia 22102
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have examined the Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-159085 (the ""), of Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), in connection with the offering by the Company of 24,442,706 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "").
Registration Statement
Company
Commission
Securities Act
Shares
We have examined the originals, or photostatic or certified copies, of such records of the Company and certificates of officers of the Company and of public officials and such other documents as we have deemed relevant and necessary as the basis for the opinions set forth below. In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies.
Based upon the foregoing examination and in reliance thereon, and subject to the assumptions stated and in reliance on statements of fact contained in the documents that we have examined, we are of the opinion that the Shares, when issued against payment therefor, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
We consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement, and we further consent to the use of our name under the captions "Validity of the Common Stock" and "Certain Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the prospectus that forms a part thereof. In giving these consents, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations of the Commission.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP


