FILE:COF/COF-8K-20120314164449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent Developments
In January 2012, Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") submitted its capital plan to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve") as part of the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR"). On March 13, 2012, the Company was informed that the Federal Reserve had no objection to the capital actions contained in the Company's capital plan submitted under CCAR. The Company announced two strategic acquisitions in 2011 and the expectation that it would raise common equity capital in support of each acquisition. As a result, as part of its capital plan for CCAR, the Company included a $1.25 billion common equity raise by the end of the second quarter of 2012. On March 14, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing an underwritten public offering of $1.25 billion of its common stock. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC are acting as book-running managers for the offering. The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to fund a portion of its previously announced acquisition of the HSBC U.S. credit card business (defined below). The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.
The Company expects earnings per share from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2012 of at least $2.50, inclusive of an expected bargain purchase gain of approximately $600 million, or approximately $1.15 per share, related to the ING Direct Acquisition (defined below) in the first quarter.
The Company continues to target a Tier 1 common ratio in the mid-9% range at the end of the second quarter of 2012, inclusive of the expected completion of the HSBC Acquisition (defined below). The Company expects its Tier 1 common ratio at the end of the first quarter of 2012 to be well above 11%, including the impact of, among other things, expected first quarter earnings, the issuance of 40 million shares of common stock on February 16, 2012, in connection with the settlement of the forward sale agreements we executed in July 2011, the issuance of approximately 54 million shares of common stock to ING Bank N.V. on February 17, 2012, in connection with the closing of the ING Direct Acquisition and the expected completion of the common stock offering referenced above.
In June 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING Direct N.V., and ING Direct Bancorp under which the Company agreed to acquire substantially all of such entities' ING Direct business in the United States ("ING Direct"). On February 17, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of ING Direct (the "ING Direct Acquisition"). In August 2011, the Company announced that it had entered into a purchase agreement with HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc., to acquire substantially all of the assets and assume liabilities of the sellers' credit card and private-label credit card business in the United States (other than the HSBC Bank USA, National Association consumer credit card program and certain other retained assets and liabilities) (the "HSBC U.S. credit card business") for a premium estimated at $2.6 billion as of June 30, 2011 (the "HSBC Acquisition").
Financial Statements and Information
In this Current Report on Form 8-K, the Company is providing the following information: (i) audited consolidated financial statements of ING Bank, fsb ("ING Bank", whose equity interests, among others, were acquired in the ING Direct Acquisition) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01; (ii) financial statements of HSBC Card and Retail Services as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01; and (iii) preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, attached as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.
As explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the pro forma financial information, the preliminary pro forma business combination adjustments reflected in the preliminary pro forma financial information are subject to adjustment. The Company expects to amend its Form 8-K filed on February 17, 2012, to provide final unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements to reflect the ING Direct Acquisition. The Company also expects that after the closing of the HSBC Acquisition it will file, pursuant to Item 2.01 of Form 8-K, finalized pro forma financial information with respect to the HSBC Acquisition.
Note: Information in this report (including the exhibits) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibits 99.1 (which press release is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01), 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, unless such incorporation by reference is specifically referenced therein.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors and Shareholder
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement of Capital One Financial Corporation (No. 333-159085) of our report dated March 6, 2012 with respect to the balance sheets of HSBC Card and Retail Services as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of income, changes in shareholder's equity, and cash flows for the years then ended (the "Report"), which Report appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Capital One Financial Corporation dated March 14, 2012. We also consent to the reference to our firm under the heading "Experts" in such registration statement.
March 14, 2012

Exhibit 23.2
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of Capital One Financial Corporation:
 
 
and in the related Prospectuses, where applicable, of our report dated March 5, 2012, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of ING Bank, fsb included in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Capital One Financial Corporation.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
March 14, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 14, 2012
McLean, Va. (March 14, 2012)  Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced an underwritten public offering of $1.25 billion of its common stock. Morgan Stanley, Barclays Capital, Citigroup and Credit Suisse are acting as book-running managers for the offering. Capital One intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to fund a portion of its previously announced acquisition of HSBC's U.S. credit card business.
The public offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). A preliminary prospectus supplement related to the offering will be filed with the SEC and will be available on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the prospectus supplement and the base prospectus relating to these securities may be obtained from (i) Morgan Stanley, by calling 1-866-718-1649, by mail at Morgan Stanley Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10014, Attention: Prospectus Dept., or by e-mail at ; (ii) Barclays Capital Inc., by calling 1-888-603-5847, by mail at c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, or by e-mail at ; (iii) Citigroup, by calling 1-800-831-9146, or by mail at Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220; or (iv) Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, by calling 1-800-221-1037, by mail at Attention: Prospectus Department, One Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, or by e-mail at .
prospectus@morganstanley.com
Barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com
newyork.prospectus@credit-suisse.com
This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the common stock or any other security of Capital One, nor shall there be any sale of the common stock in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Forward-looking statements
Capital One cautions that its current expectations in this release dated March 14, 2012, and Capital One's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, are forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof. Capital One does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the information contained herein whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and Capital One's local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, consumer income and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment); the possibility that Capital One will not receive third-party consents necessary to fully realize the anticipated benefits of Capital One's acquisition of HSBC's U.S. credit card business (the "HSBC Transaction"); the possibility that Capital One may not fully realize the projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the HSBC Transaction or its acquisition of ING Direct (collectively, the "Transactions"); changes in the anticipated timing for closing the HSBC Transaction; difficulties and delays in integrating the assets and businesses acquired in the Transactions; business disruption during the pendency of or following the Transactions; diversion of management time on issues related to the Transactions, including integration of the assets and businesses acquired; reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the Transactions; disruptions relating to the Transactions negatively impacting Capital One's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the Transactions; the accuracy of estimates and assumptions Capital One uses to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Transactions, and the potential for its estimates or assumptions to change as additional information becomes available and it completes the accounting analysis of the Transactions; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder; developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation matter involving Capital One; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; increases or decreases in interest rates; Capital One's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund its operations and future growth; the success of Capital One's marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers; increases or decreases in Capital One's aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses Capital One incurs and attrition of loan balances; the level of future repurchase or indemnification requests Capital One may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage loans relating to such requests, the success rates of claimants against Capital One, any developments in litigation and the actual recoveries Capital One may make on any collateral relating to claims against it; the amount and rate of deposit growth; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or Capital One with respect to practices, products or financial condition; any significant disruption in Capital One's operations or technology platform; Capital One's ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for its size and complexity; Capital One's ability to control costs; the amount of, and rate of growth in, Capital One's expenses as its business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas; Capital One's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail
service affecting Capital One's response rates and consumer payments; Capital One's ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services; changes in the labor and employment markets; fraud or misconduct by Capital One customers, employees or business partners; competition from providers of products and services that compete with Capital One's businesses; and other risk factors listed from time to time in reports that Capital One files with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N.A., had $128.2 billion in deposits and $206.0 billion in total assets outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
The Board of Directors and Shareholder
ING Bank, fsb
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of ING Bank, fsb and Subsidiaries (the "Bank") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholder's equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Bank's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of ING Bank, fsb and Subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have examined, in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, management's assertion that ING Bank, fsb maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated March 5, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
March 5, 2012
 
Table of Contents
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
Table of Contents
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
Table of Contents
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
Table of Contents
1. Business
ING Bank, fsb (individually or together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the "Bank"), headquartered in Wilmington, DE, is a federal stock savings bank organized under the laws of the United States of America ("U.S."). As a federal stock savings bank, the Bank is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"). The Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of ING DIRECT Bancorp (the "Corporation"), which in turn is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ING Group, N.V. (the "Global Parent Company").
The Bank's strategy is to be a low-cost provider of financial services by offering clients simple and transparent products and excellent service. The Bank's products and services consist of loan and deposit products, as well as investment and retirement services delivered directly to customers throughout the U.S. principally over the telephone and through the Internet and by the U.S. mail and other delivery methods.
The Bank is the parent of ING DIRECT Securities, Inc. ("IDSI"). IDSI is the holding company for ShareBuilder Corporation, which is the parent of ING Direct Investing, Inc. (the "Securities Company"). The Securities Company is a direct based broker-dealer of securities located in Seattle, Washington, is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"). The Securities Company provides broker-dealer services to self-directed investors and employer sponsored 401(k) plans.
On June 16, 2011, the Global Parent Company announced that it had reached an agreement with Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One") to sell all outstanding shares of ING Bank, fsb (the "Bank") and certain other U.S. assets and liabilities of the Corporation (referred to herein as the "Bank Sale"), for total proceeds of approximately $9.0 billion in a combination of cash and shares. The divestment of the Bank is part of the Global Parent Company's restructuring plan which was filed with the European Commission in 2009 to obtain the Commission's approval for support the Global Parent Company received from the Dutch government (the "Dutch State") as a result of the financial crisis. In connection with the sale of the Bank, the Bank reached an agreement with the Global Parent Company to sell the Illiquid Assets Back-up Facility (the "Facility" or the "IABF") notes receivable to a wholly owned subsidiary of the Global Parent Company at fair value on the closing date, which is to occur immediately prior to the divestment of the Bank to Capital One. The sale of the notes receivable serves to remove the Bank from the Facility by putting ING Bank N.V. in its place as counterparty for the Dutch State. See Note 6 for further details on the sale of the IABF.
 
Table of Contents
 
After receiving all necessary regulatory approvals and in accordance with the terms of the Bank Sale, Capital One acquired the Bank and certain other U.S. assets and liabilities of the Corporation for approximately $9.0 billion in a combination of cash and shares on February 17, 2012. Immediately prior to the Bank Sale, the Bank sold the IABF note receivable to a subsidiary of the Global Parent Company at the February 17, 2012 fair value of the note for proceeds of approximately $10.9 billion including accrued interest receivable. As a result of the acquisition of the Bank by Capital One, the Bank's assets and liabilities will be recorded at their estimated fair values as of February 17, 2012. For more information about the terms of the Bank Sale, its effect on the consolidated financial statements or the terms of the sale of the IABF note, see Notes 27 and 6, respectively, in these financial statements.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The accounting and reporting policies of the Bank conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and to general practices within the banking industry. Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification
TM
(the "Codification" or "ASC") is the sole source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB. Changes to the Codification are communicated through an Accounting Standards Update ("ASU").
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include, after all intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated, the accounts of the Bank and its wholly owned subsidiaries, including the Securities Company and ING DIRECT Insurance Agency, LLC.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the value of the Bank's assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of income and expense. Significant estimates that are particularly susceptible to change in the near term include the allowance for loan losses, the amortization and accretion of premiums and discounts on loans, notes receivable and investments, goodwill, intangible assets, other real estate owned, income taxes and the related deferred tax asset, and the fair value of financial instruments, including the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges. Current market conditions, including unemployment rates and the general performance of the housing sector, increase the risk and complexity in the judgments of these estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
 
Table of Contents
 
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on net income.
Investment Securities
Investment securities are classified as either held-to-maturity securities, available-for-sale securities or trading securities. The purchase and sale of the Bank's investment securities are recorded as of trade date. Management determines the appropriate classification of securities at the time of purchase. The following provides further information on the accounting for investment securities.
  Investment securities that the Bank has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securities and carried at their amortized cost, which is the remaining unpaid principal balance, net of unamortized premiums or unaccreted discounts.
Held-to-maturity securities
  Investment securities that are not classified as held to maturity nor held for the purpose of trading in the near term are classified as available-for-sale securities. Available-for-sale securities include securities that management intends to use as part of its asset/liability management strategy, including securities that may be sold in response to changes to market interest or prepayment rates, needs for liquidity, and changes in the availability of and the yield of alternative investments. Available-for-sale securities are carried at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and are reported net of tax as other comprehensive income or loss, within shareholder's equity, until realized, including those recognized through an OTTI charge.
Available-for-sale securities
  Trading securities are recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in earnings. The Bank's trading securities include odd lot and fractional shares of readily marketable common stock, exchange-traded funds and mutual funds retained when shares are purchased by the Securities Company on behalf of customers.
Trading securities
Interest on investments, including amortization and accretion of premiums and discounts on investment securities, is recognized in interest income. Amortization and accretion of premiums and discounts is recognized using the effective interest method. Premiums and discounts on prepayment sensitive investments are amortized over their estimated lives using prepayment assumptions based on actual prepayment experience and expected prepayment levels. Gains and losses on sales of investment securities are computed on the specific-identification basis and included in non-interest income based on trade date.
 
Table of Contents
 
On a quarterly basis, in accordance with ASC 320, the Bank reviews its investment securities that have a fair value less than the amortized cost of the security in order to determine if the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary. The Bank considers many factors and available evidence, including the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost. ASC 320 requires the Bank to assess if an OTTI exists by considering whether (a) the Bank has the intent to sell, (b) it is more likely than not that the Bank will be required to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, or (c) it does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Bank does not intend to sell, and it is more likely than not that the Bank will not be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its cost basis, the guidance requires a company to bifurcate the OTTI into (a) the amount representing credit loss and (b) the amount related to all other factors.
InvestmentsDebt and Equity Securities,
The amount of OTTI related to credit loss is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income or loss, net of applicable tax. Securities with unrealized losses that are determined to be other-than-temporary and that the Bank intends to sell or it is more likely than not that the Bank will be required to sell before the recovery of a security's cost basis, are written down to fair value, with the entire amount recognized in earnings. See Note 4 for a summary of the key base assumptions used to estimate other-than-temporary impairment.
Notes Receivable
Due to a change in the Bank's intent resulting from the expected divestment of the Bank to Capital One, the notes were re-characterized during 2011 from held for investment, which were carried at amortized cost, to held for sale, which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Interest on the notes receivable is recognized in interest income. See Note 6 for further discussion of the notes receivable.
Loans
Loans include loans held for investment and loans held for sale.
  Loans held for investment, also referred to as the loan portfolio, are stated at the principal amount outstanding, net of premiums and discounts, and deferred loan fees and costs. Premiums and discounts, loan origination fees, and direct loan costs are capitalized and amortized over the estimated term of the respective loan period on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method for these loans.
Loan held for investment
 
Table of Contents
 
  Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, on an aggregate basis. Loans held for sale are loans originated through a financial intermediary that has a contractual obligation to purchase the loans from the Bank. During the third quarter of 2011, the bank discontinued originating loans through this financial intermediary.
Loans held for sale
Interest income is recognized in earnings based upon the principal amount outstanding. Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has ceased. Loans are placed on non-accrual status if, in the opinion of management, collection is doubtful, or when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more. Interest accrued, but not collected at the date a loan is placed on non-accrual status, is reversed and charged against interest income. Subsequent interest receipts are applied either to the outstanding principal or recorded as interest income, depending on management's assessment of ultimate collectability of principal and interest. In any case, the deferral or non-recognition of interest does not constitute forgiveness of the borrower's obligation. Loans remain on non-accrual status until such time as it is sufficiently evident that continued repayment is assured and the full collection of the loan is likely. Delinquency is determined based on contractual terms.
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level that, in management's judgment, is the Bank's best estimate of known and inherent losses in the loan portfolio as of the reporting date. Management considers various factors when estimating the allowance for loan losses, including historical charge-off experience, adjusted for any known trends in the portfolio, consideration of peer experience if the Bank's experience is limited, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors that might impact the ability of borrowers to repay. While management uses the best information available to make such evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the evaluations.
Management monitors its allowance and reviews the factors used in determining the allowance on at least a quarterly basis. Adjustments to the allowance are recorded against the provision for loan losses. Due to the nature of the loan portfolio, the Bank's evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is performed primarily on a "pooled" basis. The allowance also includes an evaluation of impaired loans, as defined by ASC 310, . A loan is considered impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that the Bank will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan. Impaired loans are assessed to determine whether the loan's carrying value is in excess of its fair value, which is determined by comparing it to either the fair value of the underlying collateral or the present value of the loan's expected cash flows.
Receivables
 
Table of Contents
 
It is the Bank's policy on mortgage loans to charge-off the principal that exceeds the fair value of the underlying collateral, less cost to sell, when it becomes 180 days past due. Consumer loans are charged off when deemed uncollectible or after reaching 120 days past due. All other loans are charged off when they are deemed uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance for loan losses. The Bank establishes the allowance for loan losses after considering the results of its review as described above. This process and methodology are applied in a consistent manner and the methods and assumptions used are reassessed and modified in response to changing conditions.
Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
From time to time, the Bank enters into purchases of securities under agreements to resell and sales of securities under agreements to repurchase. In accordance with ASC 860, , these agreements are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is continually monitored and additional collateral is obtained or returned as appropriate. The Bank maintains control of the securities pledged as collateral for these agreements, and they are carried in the securities portfolio.
Transfers and Servicing
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
 
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to earnings as incurred. Gains or losses upon disposition are reflected in earnings as realized.
 
Table of Contents
 
Goodwill and Intangibles
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of a business acquired over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting unit level. Per ASC 350, , a goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. Step one, which is used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired and step two is not necessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, step two is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. A loss is recorded to non-interest expense to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value and the loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill. Subsequent reversal of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under GAAP.
IntangiblesGoodwill and Other
The Bank's identified intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the period the assets are expected to contribute to the cash flows of the Bank, which reflect the expected pattern of benefit, up to 17 years. The following provides the Bank's amortization period for each intangible asset:
 
 
In accordance with ASC 350, an intangible asset subject to amortization shall be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable, such as a significant or adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of the intangible asset. For intangible assets subject to amortization, impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. An impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value based upon the discounted future cash flows.
 
Table of Contents
 
Other Real Estate Owned
Other real estate owned is comprised of properties the Bank has acquired through foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, as a result of borrowers who have defaulted on their residential mortgage obligations.
Other real estate owned is recorded at the lower of cost or fair value less estimated cost to dispose. Costs to maintain other real estate owned and any subsequent gains or losses are included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations in the "Other real estate owned expense, net" line.
Income Taxes
The Bank accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, . The Corporation, which includes the Bank and its subsidiaries, files a consolidated federal income tax return. The amount of income tax expense or benefit is computed and allocated on a separate-return basis. ASC 740 requires the recording of deferred income taxes that reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, including operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established against net deferred tax assets when, in the judgment of management, it is more likely than not that such net deferred tax assets will not become realizable. Future adjustments to the valuation allowance may be necessary if actual results differ substantially from the assumptions and other considerations used in making the valuation allowance. The Bank recognizes, when applicable, interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Income Taxes
Advertising Expense
The Bank recognizes the cost of indirect response advertising as expense as the costs are incurred.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12,
Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-
 
Table of Contents
 
ASU 2011-12 defers the requirements of ASU 2011-05, to present, on the face of the financial statements, the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income for all periods presented. The Board has not yet set an end date for the deferral period. During the deferral period, entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the requirements in effect prior to ASU 2011-05. All other requirements of ASU 2011-05, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 for public entities and fiscal years ending after December 15, 2012 for nonpublic entities, are not affected by this update. The other requirements and effective dates of ASU 2011-05 are discussed below in this Note. The adoption of ASU 2011-12 will not have an impact on the Bank's consolidated financial position or results of operations as it only requires a change in the format of current presentation.
05.
Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Presentation of Comprehensive Income,
In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, The amendments in ASU 2011-11 require an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to allow financial statement users to understand the affect these arrangements have on the financial statements. Under the amendments and among other requirements, entities will be required to disclose both gross and net information for instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial condition and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting agreement. This scope would include derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and securities lending arrangements. The ASU is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. Adoption of ASU 2011-11 will not have an impact on the Bank's financial position or results of operations but will have an effect on disclosures related to offsetting assets and liabilities.
Balance Sheet (Topic 210), Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, The ASU amends the goodwill impairment testing guidance by introducing an option for entities to first make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood that goodwill impairment has occurred. If, based on the qualitative test, an entity determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, no further impairment testing is necessary. If the entity concludes otherwise, it would be required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. The ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Bank has not adopted this guidance, and does not expect the adoption of this standard to have an impact on its financial position or results of operations.
IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350), Testing Goodwill for Impairment.
 
Table of Contents
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, . The update is intended to improve comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This update amends existing guidance by allowing only two options for presenting the components of net income and other comprehensive income: (1) in a single continuous financial statement, statement of comprehensive income or (2) in two separate but consecutive financial statements, consisting of an income statement followed by a separate statement of other comprehensive income. Also, items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income must be presented on the face of the financial statements. This update also eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. ASU 2011-05 requires retrospective application, and it is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. For nonpublic entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2012, and interim and annual periods thereafter. The adoption of ASU 2011-05 will not have an impact on the Bank's consolidated financial position or results of operations as it only requires a change in the format of current presentation.
Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Presentation of Comprehensive Income
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, The update is intended to ensure that fair value has the same meaning for U.S. GAAP and IFRS and that their respective fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are the same, except for minor differences in wording and style. Consequently, the amendments change the wording used to describe many of the requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. In addition, it clarifies the intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements and changes to a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. Some disclosures required by the amendment are not required for nonpublic entities. The amendments are to be applied prospectively. For public entities, the amendments are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Bank adopted this new guidance on January 1, 2012, and it did not have an impact on the Bank's financial position or results of operations.
Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS.
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-03,  Under current accounting guidance related to repurchase agreements, a transferor is considered to maintain effective control over the transferred financial assets if, among other things, the transferor has the ability to repurchase or redeem the transferred assets on substantially the same terms, even in the event of default by the transferee. To comply with this criterion, the transferor must maintain cash or collateral sufficient to fund the cost of purchasing replacement assets from another party if the transferee were to default on the agreement. This update amends current guidance related to repurchase agreements by removing from the assessment of effective control 1) the criterion
Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860), Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements.
 
Table of Contents
 
requiring the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets, even in the event of default by the transferee and 2) the collateral maintenance guidance related to that criterion. Other criteria related to the assessment of effective control are not changed by this update. This guidance is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The guidance should be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after the effective date. The Bank adopted this new guidance on January 1, 2012, and it did not have an impact on the Bank's financial position or results of operations.
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-02, The update provides additional guidance to assist creditors in determining whether a restructuring of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR"), both for purposes of recording impairment and disclosing TDRs. A restructuring of a credit arrangement is considered a TDR if the restructuring constitutes a concession, and the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The ASU also requires public entities to disclose the information about TDRs that are required by ASU 2010-20, , which was previously deferred by ASU 2011-01For public entities, the new guidance was effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The disclosures about TDRs required by ASU 2010-20 were effective for the interim reporting period ending September 30, 2011. For non-public entities, the guidance is effective for annual periods ending on or after December 15, 2012, including interim periods within those annual periods. The effective date for the TDR disclosures required by ASU 2010-20 are unchanged by ASU 2011-02 and remain effective for periods ending on or after December 15, 2011. ASU 2010-10's TDR disclosure requirements are reflected in Note 7. The Bank's adoption of ASU 2011-02 did not affect its financial statements, and the Bank does not expect it to have a material effect on its accounting for prospective TDRs.
Receivables (Topic 310), Clarifications to Accounting for Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors.
Receivables (Topic 310), Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses
, Receivables (Topic 310), Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructuring in Update No. 2010-20.
In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28, The update amends goodwill impairment testing guidance for entities that have reporting units with zero or negative carrying values. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if, based on a qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. For public entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. For non-public entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Bank did not early adopt this guidance. The Bank does not expect the guidance to have an impact on its financial position or results of operations.
IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350), When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.
 
Table of Contents
 
In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-20 which amends ASC 310 by requiring disclosure which provides a greater level of disaggregated information about the credit quality of financing receivables and related allowance for credit losses as well as certain other information on amounts past due, modifications, redefaults, and additional other information. The disclosures required by this guidance are effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2011 for non-public entities. For public entities, the disclosures as of the end of the reporting period are effective for interim and annual periods ending on or after December 15, 2010 and the disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period are effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The ASU's disclosure requirements are reflected in Notes 7 and 8 in this report. As the guidance amends only the disclosure requirements, its adoption did not impact the Bank's financial condition or results of operations.
In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06, , which amends ASC 820, , by among other items, (1) requiring additional disclosures related to transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, including the reasons for the transfers and (2) a gross presentation of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements activity within the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). Additionally, this guidance clarifies the disclosure requirements related to the level of disaggregation and valuation techniques and inputs of recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. The guidance was effective for the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the gross presentation of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the Level 3 rollforward, which is required for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 did not have an impact on the Bank's financial condition or results of operations. See Note 25 for the expanded disclosures due to this new guidance.
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820), Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurement
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
3. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank and money market funds, which are reported in interest-bearing deposits in other banks. These accounts represent excess liquid funds for the Bank. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had $6.4 billion and $420.4 million, respectively, of deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank.
The Bank is required to maintain an average reserve balance, as established by the Federal Reserve Bank. The reserve balances for the reserve computational periods at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $14.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Further, the Bank maintained a clearing reserve balance with the Federal Reserve Bank in the amount of $10.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Table of Contents
 
4. Investment Securities
The following table provides the amortized cost and estimated fair value of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investment securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Included in the Bank's accrued interest receivable on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition was $65.9 million and $79.6 million of accrued interest receivable on investment securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank held available-for-sale debt securities issued by foreign governments and institutions, including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (affiliate of the World Bank), the European Investment Bank (European Union), KFW (Germany), NIBC Bank N.V. (Netherlands), Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (Scotland) and SBAB Bank AB and Swedebank AB (Sweden), all of which are classified in the table above as government guaranteed securities. The estimated fair value of these securities was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. In addition, the Bank held available-for-sale covered bonds with an estimated fair value of $425.5 million at December 31, 2011 issued by the Bank of Nova Scotia (Canada), National Bank of Canada (Canada), Canadian Imperial Bank (Canada) and Nordea Eiendomskreditt AS (Norway). All foreign securities are investment grade rated and all countries are AAA rated.
 
Table of Contents
 
Contractual Maturities
The amortized cost and fair value of the Bank's investment securities, by contractual maturity, at December 31, 2011 are shown in the following table. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities as borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations with or without prepayment penalties.
 
The following table provides further information regarding the carrying values and contractual maturities of the Bank's investment securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, and the held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost. The table does not include the effect of prepayments or scheduled principal amortization.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Securities Gains and Losses
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank sold specifically identified available-for-sale securities with an amortized cost of $1.3 billion and $553.8 million, respectively, to unrelated third parties.
Net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 
The net realized gains included in the table above were reclassified from other comprehensive income, net of deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the reclassification adjustments for realized gains, net of deferred tax assets were $18.9 million and $8.7 million, respectively.
 
Table of Contents
 
Securities Impairment
The following table provides the fair value and unrealized losses for the Bank's investment securities, aggregated by category and length of time the individual security has been in a continuous loss position, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Included in the prior table are the unrealized losses for 932 and 929 securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The unrealized losses on investment securities can be attributed to perceived credit risk and other factors including the difference between the stated coupons on the securities and the current market interest rates available for comparable securities, and other current market conditions. Management's assessment of each security concluded that an additional OTTI charge did not exist on the $5.9 billion of available-for-sale securities or on the $76.1 million of held-to-maturity securities, at December 31, 2011.
 
Table of Contents
 
The following provides further details on the Bank's OTTI review.
Other-than-Temporary Impairment
The Bank recognizes OTTI for debt securities in accordance with ASC 320 which requires the Bank to assess whether (a) the Bank has the intent to sell, (b) it is more likely than not that the Bank will be required to sell the security before the recovery of its cost basis less any credit losses or (c) it does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Bank does not intend to sell, and it is more likely than not that the Bank will not be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its cost basis, the guidance requires a company to bifurcate the OTTI into (a) the amount representing credit loss and (b) the amount related to all other factors. The amount of OTTI related to credit loss is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income or loss, net of applicable tax. Securities with an unrealized loss that are determined to be other-than-temporary and the Bank intends to sell or it is more likely than not that the Bank will be required to sell before the recovery of a security's cost basis are written down to fair value with the entire amount recognized in earnings.
For mortgage-backed securities, credit impairment is assessed using a model that estimates the cash flows of each security's underlying mortgage collateral. These estimated cash flows are distributed to the various tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure, any subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using a number of assumptions, including default rates, loss severity rates, prepayment rates and recovery rates.
Management develops specific assumptions using market data, internal estimates as well as estimates published by rating agencies and other third-party sources. Default rates for the seriously delinquent loans, which are those loans that are greater than 60 days delinquent, are projected by considering current underlying mortgage loan performance. Cumulative loss results are determined by vintage and sector using internal research along with third-party information and these results are used to determine terminal constant default rates ("CDR").
 
Table of Contents
 
The key base assumptions for private label residential mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized in the following table:
 
The key cash flow assumptions used for determining the impairment of commercial mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized in the table below:
 
These assumptions are subject to change based on management's assessment of facts and circumstances which support a change in the key assumptions for a specific security. Multiple scenarios are run using a range of default estimates. Sensitivity tests are also conducted using observed data for specific securities. Other factors used to assess securities include rating agency loss projections, ratings, integrity of the capital structure in terms of subordinate bonds and
 
Table of Contents
 
current market prices. Management assesses these results (including the likelihood of the stress scenario actually occurring based on the underlying pool's characteristics and performance) to determine whether the Bank expects to recover the amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the Bank does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Bank recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.
Changes in the Credit Loss Component of the Credit-Impaired Debt Securities
The following table provides activity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 related to the credit component of OTTI on debt securities held by the Bank for which a portion of the OTTI was recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, actual bond cash losses amounted to $76.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively.
The credit loss component represents the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows and the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering credit losses. OTTI recognized in earnings for credit-impaired debt securities is presented as additions in two components based upon whether the current period is the first time the debt security was credit impaired (initial credit impairment) or is not the first time the debt security was credit impaired (subsequent credit impairments). During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, credit losses of $74.2 million and $72.4 million, respectively, were recognized through earnings.
5. FHLB Stock
FHLB stock is equity securities owned in the Pittsburgh member bank of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") system. Unlike other types of stock, it is acquired primarily for the right to receive advances rather than for the purpose of maximizing dividends or investment growth. FHLB stock is an activity-based stock that is directionally proportional to the volume of advances. The FHLB stock is restricted in that it can only be redeemed by the issuer at par value. These non-readily marketable equity securities are carried at cost, which is deemed to approximate fair value, and evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 942-325, . The Bank does not believe that the FHLB stock was impaired as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. In February, April, July, and October 2011, the FHLB redeemed $22.7 million, $21.6 million, $20.5 million, and $19.5 million, respectively, in stock at par value. The Bank held $370.4 million and $454.7 million of FHLB Pittsburgh common stock at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Financial Services  Depository and Lending  Investments-Other
6. Notes Receivable
During June 2011, the Bank's notes receivable were re-characterized from held for investment, which were carried at amortized cost, to held for sale, which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Details of the Bank's notes receivable at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The following discussion provides further details on the origination of the notes receivable held for investment as well as the re-characterization of such notes as held for sale.
On January 26, 2009, the Global Parent Company and the Dutch government ("Dutch State") announced that they reached an agreement on an Illiquid Assets Back-Up Facility ("Facility") term sheet. The transaction was approved by various regulatory agencies and closed on March 31, 2009. The Facility covers the Alt-A portfolio of the Global Parent Company, including the Bank's Alt-A portfolio. Under the terms of the Facility, the Global Parent Company transferred 80% of the economic ownership of the Global Parent Company's Alt-A portfolio to the Dutch State at a price equal to 90% of par value in exchange for a receivable from the Dutch State.
Simultaneous with the closing of the Facility, the Bank sold an 80% undivided participation ("Participation") interest in approximately $33.7 billion par value of Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities owned by the Bank to ING Support Holdings B.V. ("Dutch Co"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Global Parent Company. The transaction was accounted for as a sale in accordance with ASC 860. The notional amount of the receivable from the Dutch State was $24.3 billion, or 90% of the par value with respect to the 80% Participation interest. As consideration, the Bank was assigned the right to receive the guaranteed payment stream from the Dutch State under the Facility.
Included in this transaction were $387.1 million in amortized cost of Alt-A securities that were previously classified as held to maturity and $24.5 billion classified as available for sale. As a result of the transaction, 80% of the Alt-A portfolio was derecognized from the Bank's consolidated statement of financial condition in 2009 and two notes receivable from the Dutch State were recognized. The first note is at a 3.50% fixed rate, and the second note is variable, based on the one-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 50 basis points.
As part of the notes receivable, the Bank also recorded a net premium of $798.1 million for the excess of fair value over par value on the note. The premium is amortized to income as an adjustment to yield over the contractual maturity of the notes receivable. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded net premium amortization of $51.9 million and $142.5 million, respectively, which was included in interest income on the notes receivable. The net premium was amortized during 2011 until the notes receivable were re-characterized as held for sale in June 2011.
On June 16, 2011, in connection with the sale of the Bank, as discussed in Note 1, the Bank reached an agreement with the Global Parent Company to sell the notes receivable to a wholly owned subsidiary of the Global Parent Company at fair value. The closing of the Bank Sale was contingent upon the sale of the IABF Note. Immediately prior to the Bank Sale, the Bank sold the IABF notes receivable to ING Bank, N.V. at the February 17, 2012 fair value of the notes for proceeds of approximately $10.9 billion including accrued interest receivable. Refer to Notes 1 and 27 for further discussion of the Bank Sale.
 
Table of Contents
 
The transaction was comprised of two separate but simultaneous transactions involving the Bank. First, the Bank, the Global Parent Company, and Dutch Co terminated the Participation Agreement and made an outright transfer to Dutch Co of the legal title to 80% of the current face value of each security; no further payments are due between the Bank and Dutch Co. Second, the Bank assigned its rights to receive the payments from the Dutch State to ING Bank N.V. The Bank received a cash payment in settlement of the fair market value of the notes receivable held for sale. The remaining 20% of the current face value of the underlying securities which were not sold by the Bank in terms of the agreement will remain on the Bank's balance sheet going forward, free of any restrictions on sale, transfer or pledge.
The Bank's Board of Directors approved the IABF Replacement on June 16, 2011, in concept subject to regulatory approvals and final documentation. The final documentation was approved by the Board in October 2011.
On June 16, 2011, as a result of the Bank's decision to sell the notes receivable, the notes receivable were re-characterized from notes receivable held for investment to notes receivable held for sale, in accordance with ASC 310. The notes receivable will be carried at the lower of cost or fair value until the closing of the sale of the notes receivable. The fair value adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was recorded to non-interest income, was a loss of $356.3 million. For further information regarding the calculation of fair value, see Note 24.
The following provides the details of the interest income on notes receivable, net of premium amortization and other adjustments, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
7. Loans
The table below summarizes the gross and net loan balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
Included in the table are lending products whose terms may give rise to additional credit risks. These include interest-only mortgages and other non-traditional mortgages. These products are closely managed via credit controls that mitigate their additional inherent risk. Included in accrued interest receivable on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $107.2 million and $120.2 million, respectively, of accrued interest income on loans.
The Bank accounts for impaired loans in accordance with ASC 310-10. Impaired loans include non-accrual loans and loans that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR"). Loans are placed on non-accrual status if, in the opinion of management, collection is doubtful or when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more. A TDR is a type of loan modification where a concession, such as a rate reduction, a payment deferral or other action which is intended to maximize collection from the borrower, is granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. ASC 310-10 requires a creditor to measure impaired loans based on the present value of expected future cash flows, the market price of the loan, or the fair value of the underlying collateral if the loan is collateral-dependent. The Bank recognizes income on impaired loans when there is reasonable assurance of repayment and performance. In addition, TDR loans are returned to accrual status when the borrower shows sustained repayment performance for a reasonable time. The Bank believes the timeframe necessary to demonstrate sustained repayment performance is once six consecutive on-time payments have been made by the borrower and the account has been brought current. If these factors do not exist, the Bank will continue to recognize income on such loans on a cash basis.
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table provides a summary of the Bank's impaired loans and non-performing assets, which include non-performing loans (defined as non-accrual loans and non-performing TDRs which include TDRs which have not been returned to accrual status) and other real estate owned as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
On December 31, 2011, the Bank adopted ASU 2010-20 which expands the disclosure requirements surrounding the credit quality of loans and the allowance for loan losses and introduces and defines the terms "portfolio segment" and "class" of financing receivables. ASU 2010-20 requires, among other things, that certain disclosures be disaggregated and presented by portfolio segment or class. In accordance with the ASU, the Bank defined its portfolio segments at levels consistent with the levels of disaggregation that management uses to determine the allowance for loan losses. The Bank's portfolio segments are Residential Mortgage, which consists of residential mortgage and home equity loans, and Other, which consists of all other loans. The Bank further disaggregated the Residential Mortgage portfolio segment into classes that reflect the nature and extent of exposure to credit risk. The Residential Mortgage classes are Originated, Purchased, and Home Equity. The new disclosure requirements and levels of disaggregation required by this ASU are reflected throughout this note and Note 8.
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table provides information on the Bank's non-performing loans by class at December 31, 2011:
 
The following table provides information about the Bank's impaired loans by class at December 31, 2011:
 
 
During 2010, the Bank revised its estimated timing on the charge-off of delinquent loans. As a result of the change, the Bank accelerated delinquent loan charge-offs, which were previously recorded at the time of foreclosure, to 180 days past due, which the Bank believes is a better estimate of the point in time when a loan becomes uncollectible. Although the timing of the charge-off of $434.7 million was accelerated during 2010, it did not have a material impact on the Bank's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 as these charge-offs had been previously provided for in the Bank's allowance for loan losses through the provision for loan losses, in accordance with ASC 310 guidance on accounting for impaired loans.
 
Table of Contents
 
As part of the Bank's loss mitigation process, loans may be renegotiated in a TDR when the Bank determines that greater economic value will ultimately be recovered under the new terms rather than through foreclosure, liquidation, or bankruptcy. The Bank considers the borrower's payment status, payment history, credit score, and other relevant factors in determining whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had 5,115 and 4,545 restructured loans with an outstanding principal balance of $2.4 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, and had forgone interest for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 of $37.0 million and $29.2 million, respectively.
The following table provides further information on the Bank's TDR loans at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
The renegotiated terms of the TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2011 mainly included interest rate reductions, principal and interest deferments, or a combination of both. The Bank does not grant principal concessions. Included in the provision for loan losses is $29.6 million and $40.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the Bank's TDR loans.
Details regarding the Bank's TDR loans by class at December 31, 2011 are as follows:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Additional details regarding the Bank's TDR loans and the types of concessions granted at December 31, 2011 are as follows:
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Bank modified 1,249 loans in troubled debt restructurings. Of the 1,249 loans modified in TDRs during the 12 months ended December 31, 2011, 138, or 11%, subsequently experienced payment defaults. The Bank considers TDRs to have defaulted when the loan becomes 90 days past due after the modification. The following table provides information on loans that were modified as troubled debt restructurings within the past 12 months and that subsequently defaulted.
 
As previously discussed, the Bank individually estimates impairment for TDR loans. The Bank's overall allowance methodology also incorporates estimated post-modification default rates related to TDR loans.
Guaranteed Loans
During 2009, the Bank purchased $490.2 million of guaranteed loans from ING Capital, LLC, which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Global Parent Company. The guaranteed loans have maturities ranging from four to eight years, and carry interest rates equal to LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 0 to 15 basis points. The guaranteed loans are 100% guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States ("Ex-Im Bank"). Ex-Im Bank coordinates fixed-rate loans covering up to 85% of the U.S. contract value directly to foreign buyers of U.S. goods and
 
Table of Contents
 
services. In the event of a payment default by the borrower, Ex-Im Bank will pay the holder of the guaranteed loans the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. The Bank did not purchase any additional guaranteed loans during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.
Consumer Loans
Consumer loans consist of unsecured lines of credit and overdraft balances on checking accounts.
Margin Lending
Margin lending consists of the Securities Company's margin lending product. The balance represents loans to eligible customers which are collateralized by their respective security and cash holdings. Margin lending is subject to the margin rules of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve"), the margin requirements of FINRA, and the Securities Company's internal policies.
Commercial Loans
The commercial loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate and residential builder loans.
Other Loans and Advances
Included in the other loans and advances of $386.0 million and $47.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively were $366.2 million and $27.7 million of advances at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of advances to a third party in order to securitize Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") qualified mortgage loans into investment securities. Once securitized, the Bank receives mortgage-backed securities with an equivalent notional amount in exchange. The mortgage-backed securities are backed by government or quasi-government agencies. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank advanced $616.0 million and $686.2 million, respectively, to securitize CRA qualified mortgage loans.
The recorded investment in these securities at the time of the securitization is based on the amounts advanced to the third party. Subsequent to the date of the securitization, the securities are carried at their estimated fair value. The assets are classified as available-for-sale securities and are included in the disclosures in Note 4.
During 2011, the Bank received $249.4 million of investment securities and $424,000 in cash to satisfy the advances made during 2011. The fair value of these investment securities totaled $248.7 million as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the Bank received $27.7 million of
 
Table of Contents
 
investment securities to satisfy the advances outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Two of these securities, valued at $16.2 million upon receipt, were subsequently sold during 2011. The fair value of the remaining investment securities received to satisfy 2010 advances was $11.5 million as of December 31, 2011.
Officers and employees of the Bank have loans issued by the Bank which were made on the same terms, including interest rates, as those prevailing at the time for non-related-party transactions. The outstanding amounts are included in loans in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and were not material to the Bank's financial results at December 31, 2011 or 2010.
8. Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan Losses
Credit Quality
The Bank monitors credit quality by evaluating various attributes of the loan portfolio. The Bank views trends in delinquency, among other considerations, as a key indicator of credit quality and exposure to risk within the loan portfolio. The Bank also considers concentrations in geography and vintage in monitoring credit quality. Loans secured by collateral in certain states, like California, Arizona, Nevada, and Florida, and loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have exhibited a higher likelihood of loss. The level of modified loans is also an indicator of the exposure to credit risk in the portfolio. The following tables provide information about the credit risk profile of our loan portfolio by credit quality indicators and by class of loans.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level that, in management's judgment, is the Bank's best estimate of known and inherent losses in the loan portfolio. Management considers various factors when estimating the allowance for loan losses, including historical charge-off experience, adjusted for any known trends in the portfolio, consideration of peer experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors that might impact the ability of borrowers to repay. The loan loss reserve methodology, specific to residential mortgages, considers at a more granular level, origination channel, estimated current loan-to-value and potential outcomes, which include return to performing status, loan modifications, short sales, or foreclosures.
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
Charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2010, which were $842.3 million, include $434.7 million as a result of the Bank's change in its estimated timing of charge-off of delinquent loans from the time of foreclosure to 180 days delinquent. See Note 7 for further details on the change in the estimated timing of charge-off of delinquent loans.
The following table provides additional details regarding the activity in the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The loan and allowance balances, by impairment methodology, at December 31, 2011 were as follows:
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had $4.7 million and $4.5 million, respectively, of pending mortgage insurance claims submitted to the insurance carrier for approval. The Bank received $5.7 million and $2.2 million of cash from the insurance carrier, after the deductibles were met, during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Upon actual receipt of the funds related to the insurance claims, they are recognized in earnings as recoveries, in accordance with treatment of accounting for a gain contingency, per ASC 450-30, .
Contingencies  Gain Contingencies
9. Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
The table below summarizes the Bank's securities purchased under agreements to resell as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively:
 
Interest income on securities purchased under agreements to resell for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $175,000. The Bank had no reverse repurchase agreements outstanding during 2011.
 
Table of Contents
 
10. Premises and Equipment
The table below summarizes premises and equipment as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Depreciation and amortization expense on premises and equipment amounted to $33.0 million and $30.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Lease Commitments
Future minimum rental payments required under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms that expire after December 31, 2011 were as follows:
 
Certain of the leases contain escalation clauses and renewal options. Rental expenses under operating leases were $15.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were recognized on a straight-line basis and included in occupancy costs over the term of the lease.
11. Bank-Owned Life Insurance
The Bank owns two tranches of life insurance on certain management level employees of the Bank. The Bank is the beneficiary of these life insurance policies for which the entire premium is maintained in a separate account by the insurance carrier. In conjunction with the bank-owned life insurance, the Bank will pay a $50,000 benefit if an insured employee dies while actively employed or retired from the Bank.
 
Table of Contents
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded income related to the increase in net cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance of $42.2 million and $39.3 million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank owned $1.1 billion in cash surrender value associated with the bank-owned life insurance.
The Bank has a $1.1 million and $1.3 million liability as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for death benefits to covered employees that extend into postretirement periods which are included within other liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.
12. Other Assets
The other assets balance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes the following:
 
Other real estate owned represents properties the Bank has repossessed from borrowers who defaulted on their residential mortgage obligations. These properties are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell.
The table below summarizes the activity in other real estate owned for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Table of Contents
 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded $11.5 million and $33.0 million in other real estate owned expense, net, respectively, which includes any gain or loss on disposition, write-downs of properties, as well as operating expenses.
The Bank owned $19.7 million and $19.8 million in variable universal life insurance policies as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These policies insure key members of management, and the Bank is the owner and beneficiary of these insurance contracts. The assets are recorded at cash surrender value, less the current contingent deferred cash surrender charge with changes reflected in current period earnings.
The mortgage-backed security principal receivable at December 31, 2011 and 2010 relates to principal paydowns on mortgage-backed securities, which are collected within 45 days of period-end. The Bank had $7.6 million and $16.3 million of mortgage-backed security principal receivable at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
13. Goodwill and Intangibles
Goodwill
The Bank recorded goodwill as a result of the purchase of the Securities Company in 2007. Goodwill at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $119.7 million. The Bank believes that goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2011 or 2010.
Identifiable Intangible Assets
The gross carrying values and accumulated amortization related to identifiable intangible assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented below:
 
Table of Contents
 
The weighted-average life for total amortizing identifiable intangible assets was 9.3 years as of December 31, 2011. The Bank believes that intangible assets were not impaired at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
The following provides information on the Bank's amortization expense for intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 as well as the projected expense:
 
14. Deposits
The Bank's savings deposits include money market demand accounts and individual retirement accounts. The table below provides details on the Bank's interest-bearing deposit liabilities, by product, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Table of Contents
 
A summary of the interest expense on deposits for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are provided as follows:
 
The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. The increase was made permanent as a result of the Reform Act signed into law on July 21, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had 22,602 and 17,159 of partially uninsured customers, respectively, with an aggregate balance of $2.8 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, in excess of $250,000 per customer.
The table below summarizes the Bank's average deposit liability and weighted-average rate by product for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Table of Contents
 
Directors and executive officers of the Bank have deposits held by the Bank which were made on the same terms, including interest rates, as those prevailing at the time for other non-related party transactions. The outstanding amounts are included in deposits in the Bank's Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and were not material to the Bank's financial results.
Time deposits as of December 31, 2011, by date of maturity, were as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
15. Borrowings
The following table provides details on the Bank's borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Interest expense on the Bank's borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was as follows:
 
Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
The Bank has the ability to borrow from FHLB Pittsburgh. When held, all borrowings from FHLB Pittsburgh are secured by a blanket lien against FHLB-defined qualified collateral, which includes the majority of the Bank's mortgage loans and securities portfolio. Under the contract terms, the Bank has the option to terminate FHLB advances if mutually agreed upon. FHLB Pittsburgh requires the Bank to deliver securities if it exceeds 50% of its maximum borrowing capacity. The Bank maintained stock in the Pittsburgh member bank of the FHLB system of $370.4 million and $454.7 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 5 for further details on the Bank's investment in FHLB stock.
 
Table of Contents
 
The Bank's borrowings from FHLB Pittsburgh at December 31, 2010 matured during the first quarter of 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the bank terminated three FHLB advances at fair value. Payments for the early terminations of FHLB advances during 2010 were $1.5 billion, resulting in a loss of $24.4 million.
At December 31, 2011, the Bank had a maximum borrowing capacity with FHLB Pittsburgh of $17.9 billion. Additionally, the Bank has an open ended monthly repurchase agreement with the FHLB Pittsburgh for $150.0 million which it did not utilize during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.
Repurchase Agreements
Under the contract terms of repurchase agreements, the Bank has the option to terminate repurchase agreements with various counterparties if the Bank and the counterparty come to mutually agreeable terms.
As of December 31, 2011, there were no repurchase agreements outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, borrowings from repurchase agreements were collateralized by marketable securities with a par value of $1.1 billion and a fair market value of $1.2 billion. Collateral exposure was measured at the counterparty level.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Bank terminated four repurchase agreements. Payment for the early termination of the repurchase agreements was $1.1 billion, resulting in a loss of $61.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Bank terminated five repurchase agreements at fair value. Payment for the early termination of the repurchase agreements was $1.5 billion, resulting in a loss of $47.4 million.
 
Table of Contents
 
16. Other Liabilities
The other liabilities balance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 included the following:
 
The intercompany payable is primarily due to an intercompany tax sharing agreement with the Corporation, as discussed further in Note 19.
Accrued compensation consists primarily of the Bank's incentive compensation program. The compensation plan liability includes amounts owed related to the Bank's deferred compensation plan and long-term incentive compensation plan. The Bank's compensation plan liability is unfunded as this is not a requirement for the Bank's specific deferred and long-term incentive compensation plans. While not funded, the Bank's cash surrender value on key life insurance plans with values of $19.7 million and $19.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as disclosed in Note 12 is maintained to offset the majority of the compensation plan liability.
Servicer principal and interest advances are associated with loans purchased and serviced by a third party, in accordance with a servicing contract. These advances represent payments remitted to the Bank, which have not yet been collected by the third party from the borrower. Other liabilities include deferred rent, accruals and other miscellaneous payables.
 
Table of Contents
 
17. Income Taxes
The following table summarizes income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
The table below reconciles the expected tax expense at the statutory rate of 35% and actual tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
State income taxes include both current and deferred expense. In 2010, the Bank's overall effective state income tax rate increased which resulted in the recognition of an additional state deferred tax asset and corresponding deferred state tax benefit. The Bank's 2011 overall effective state tax rate was comparable to 2010. However, included in the 2011 deferred state taxes is a benefit of $5.3 million related to the reduction in the valuation allowance for state tax net operating loss carryforwards.
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The following table provides significant deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Bank at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Table of Contents
 
Included in the table above is the effect of certain temporary differences for which no deferred tax expense or benefit was recognized through the income statement. Instead, the associated tax effect was recognized through equity. Such items consisted primarily of unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt securities accounted for under ASC 320 and ASC 310-40, as well as net deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets of $18.7 million that were recorded in 2007 related to the acquisition of the Securities Company.
The gross deferred tax asset was $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The gross deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011 includes $206.1 million resulting from a proposed settlement with the IRS, as discussed in Note 18. The ability to realize deferred tax assets is dependent upon various factors, including the generation of future taxable income, the existence of taxes paid that are expected to be refunded, the reversal of deferred tax liabilities and tax planning strategies. Based on the Bank's history of prior earnings and its expectations of the future, it is anticipated that operating income and the reversal pattern of its temporary differences will, more likely than not, be sufficient to realize the net deferred tax asset of $846.0 million at December 31, 2011.
At December 31, 2011, $9.0 million in gross deferred tax assets of the Bank were related to net operating losses and tax credits attributable to the Securities Company. The Bank has assessed a valuation allowance of $3.7 million at December 31, 2011 on a portion of these deferred tax
 
Table of Contents
 
assets due to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). This valuation allowance was recorded during the purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of the Securities Company.
The Bank had federal net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") of $784.4 million at December 31, 2011. State NOLs are approximately $1.0 billion higher than the Federal NOLs and expire over the next 18 years. A valuation allowance of $4.8 million and $10.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, was recorded due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of state tax benefits associated with these state NOLs. The expiration dates and amounts of such Federal NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2011 are listed below:
 
The Bank's ability to use its federal NOLs to offset future income is subject to restrictions enacted in Section 382 of the Code. These restrictions limit a company's future use of NOLs if there is a significant ownership change in a company's stock (an "Ownership Change"). As a result of the Bank Sale discussed in Note 1, an Ownership Change has occurred that is expected to result in future limitations on the utilization of the NOLs.
18. Income Taxes  Recognition
ASC 740, , prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Benefits from tax positions should be recognized in the financial statements only when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authority that would have full knowledge of all relevant information.
Income Taxes
A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not recognition threshold should be
 
Table of Contents
 
recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not recognition threshold should be derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. ASC 740-10-45 also provides guidance on the accounting for and disclosure of unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties.
As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were $15.6 million and $10.0 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Bank's effective tax rate, if recognized. The total amount of accrued interest and accrued penalties included in such unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 were $3.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively. The unrecognized tax benefits are not expected to materially increase or decrease in 2012.
The following table reconciles the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the year ended December 31, 2011:
 
The Bank's policy is to record interest and penalties on potential income tax deficiencies as an addition to its provision for income tax expense. As of December 31, 2011, tax returns for the tax years ending December 31, 2007 through 2011 are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"), and tax returns for the tax years ending December 31, 2008 through 2011 are subject to state examination. Several routine state tax audits began during 2011.
The IRS is currently auditing the Bank's 2009 federal income tax return. The primary focus of the audit is the loss on the sale of certain securities to DutchCo. In 2010, the Bank received a federal tax refund of $552.5 million as a result of carrying back this tax loss five years (tax years 2004  2008). While the Bank strongly believes in the merits of its technical arguments and believes the tax return positions taken should ultimately be sustained, in 2011 the Bank proposed a non-binding settlement offer to the IRS whereby the tax loss will be respected but a portion of the loss (related to tax years 2004, 2005, and 2006) realized on the sale of the securities to DutchCo will be carried forward rather than carried back (thereby leaving the tax loss carried back to tax years 2007 and 2008 intact). In April 2011, the IRS examination team verbally accepted the proposal and subsequently issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NPA) in early
 
Table of Contents
 
May 2011. The Bank formally responded to the NPA with its position as to why the loss should be allowed, along with a proposed Closing Agreement. The settlement was approved by the IRS Appeals Division in September 2011. The Bank executed the Closing Agreement and the IRS Appeals Division submitted it to the Joint Committee on Taxation on October 5, 2011. Final approval by the Joint Committee on Taxation is expected in early 2012. Since the Bank believed that it was more likely than not that the required approvals will be obtained and the settlement accepted, a current tax payable of $206.1 million was accrued during 2011 along with an offsetting deferred tax asset (DTA) of approximately the same amount. The Bank paid $206.1 million to the IRS at the end of June 2011 to prevent the accrual of additional interest. This amount relates to tax refunds the Bank received when the NOL was carried back to tax years 2004, 2005, and 2006. The Bank also recorded an interest charge of $10.9 million through the income tax provision, included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, as a result of the IRS settlement. Should the Joint Committee on Taxation deny the settlement, the Bank would reverse this accounting impact and continue to defend the original positions taken.
19. Related-Party Transactions
Management believes that all transactions entered into with related parties are consummated at substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, if applicable, as those prevailing at the time for other non-related parties. All payables and receivables related to the below-mentioned activity were settled under terms customary to those normally extended to non-related parties.
The Bank incurred management fee expenses from the Global Parent Company of $13.1 million and $10.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
During 2011 and 2010, the Bank made payments to several affiliates for various services rendered. The Bank incurred miscellaneous expenses for professional and other services of $241,000 and $219,000 to other affiliates owned by the Global Parent Company for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Bank made cash contributions to ING DIRECT Kids Foundation totaling $750,000 during the year ended December 31, 2010; no cash contributions were made in 2011.
The Bank leases two properties from a related party, WS Realty, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation. The Bank incurred rental expense paid to WS Realty, LLC of $3.9 million and $3.8 million, respectively, during each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Table of Contents
 
The Corporation, which includes the Bank and its subsidiaries, files a consolidated federal income tax return. The amount of income tax expense or benefit is computed and allocated on a separate return basis. The Bank had an intercompany payable to the Corporation of $1.7 million and $30.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively which is included in other liabilities in Note 16. See Note 17 for more information related to income taxes. Also included in other liabilities were intercompany payables to other affiliates owned by the Global Parent Company of $15,000 and $1.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
20. Employee Benefit Plans
The Bank maintains a defined contribution savings plan covering substantially all employees. The plan allows eligible employees to make contributions by salary deduction pursuant to the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Discretionary matching contributions by the Bank expensed in the consolidated financial statements were $7.8 million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
During the third quarter of 2010, the Bank implemented a Pension Plan for the benefit of all employees. The plan, which is a Money Purchase Plan, supplements the Bank's current 401(k) Plan, as the contributions are 100% employer made. This qualified plan will provide a uniform 5% contribution on applicable compensation, and investment of the funds will be directed by the Bank. The plan has a six year graded vesting schedule with credit towards vesting provided for past service. Contributions expensed in the consolidated financial statements were $4.6 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
In addition to the above plans, the Bank offers a non-qualified deferred compensation plan and a non-qualified long-term incentive compensation plan. Like the 401(k) plan, both of these plans provide participants with self-direction among the deemed investment options for their account balances. The deferred compensation plan is offered to members of senior management. Qualified employees can elect to defer a portion of their compensation into the plan and receive a Bank match up to 6% of compensation. Changes in the notional value of the deferred compensation plan liability and matching credits are reflected in current period earnings. The outstanding liabilities to participating employees were $17.6 million and $13.7 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively and are included within other liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. See Note 16 for further discussion of other liabilities.
The long-term incentive compensation plan is offered to members of executive management. Upon successfully achieving Bank operation performance goals, annual incentive awards may be contributed by the Bank to accounts of eligible employees. Changes in the notional value of the long-term incentive compensation plan liability and the annual awards granted to participants are reflected in current period earnings. The outstanding liabilities to participating employees were $7.2 million and $10.7 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively and are included
 
Table of Contents
 
within other liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. See Note 16 for further discussion of other liabilities. All awards granted were fully vested as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.
21. Commitments and Contingencies
Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk
The Bank is party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit to meet the financing needs of its customers. These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The contract amounts of those instruments reflect the extent of involvement the Bank has in particular classes of financial instruments and, therefore, represent the maximum exposure to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the other party to the financial instrument. In the event of nonperformance, the Bank has rights to the underlying collateral securing a loan.
Financial instruments whose contract amounts represent credit risk at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no significant violation of any conditions established in the contract. The Bank evaluates each customer's creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral, if any, received on loan commitments is dependent upon the individual transaction and the creditworthiness of the customer. Many commitments to extend credit expire without ever having been drawn upon, so the total commitment amounts may not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The commitments at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were principally related to variable rate loans.
Included in other loans are commercial letters of credit and overdraft lines of credit. Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank generally to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party in borrowing arrangements. The Bank considers commitments outstanding as of the day the commitment letter is issued.
 
Table of Contents
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, outstanding letters of credit issued by the Bank totaled $64,000 and $133,000, respectively.
Mortgage Commitments
During the second quarter of 2011, the Bank entered into purchase agreements with certain financial intermediaries whereby, after the financial intermediary funds and closes a loan, that loan will be acquired by the bank at a specified price. As a result of these forward purchase commitments, the Bank records a mark-to-market adjustment during the rate-lock period until acquisition of the loan by the Bank. These market value adjustments are recorded to the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and are included in other assets and other liabilities, as deemed appropriate. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had $277,000 in other assets and $110,000 in other liabilities, respectively, for these commitments.
Prior to July 2011, the Bank also originated certain loans through a financial intermediary, which, once funded, were included in loans held for sale. As a result of the forward purchase commitment to fund the loan through the financial intermediary, the Bank recorded a mark-to-market adjustment during the rate-lock period. Simultaneous with the funding of the loan, the Bank also had a forward sales commitment with the financial intermediary to acquire these loans from the Bank, for which the Bank also recorded a mark-to-market adjustment. These mark-to-market adjustments were recorded to the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and were included in other assets or other liabilities, as deemed appropriate, while the amounts recorded to the Consolidated Statements of Operations offset and had no impact. During the third quarter of 2011, the Bank discontinued originating loans through this financial intermediary. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had $207,000 included in other assets and other liabilities for these commitments.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time, the Bank may be a party to lawsuits or legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Such lawsuits and legal proceedings are subject to many uncertain factors that generally cannot be predicted with assurance. In accordance with the current accounting standards for loss contingencies, the Bank establishes reserves for litigation-related matters when it is probable that a loss associated with a claim or proceeding had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, arising out of lawsuits or legal proceedings, is not currently material to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Table of Contents
 
In January 2011, mortgage customers filed a putative class action complaint in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware, entitled Yarger v. ING Bank, fsb. The Bank removed the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and filed an answer in March 2011. The complaint is brought on behalf of plaintiffs and all similarly-situated customers who purchased an Orange Mortgage or Easy Orange Mortgage from the Bank for the period October 2005 through May 2009, and were allegedly marketed with a guaranteed Rate Renewal fee of $500 or $750 for the remaining life of the loan. The complaint alleges claims under: Delaware's Consumer Fraud Act, common law fraud, promissory estoppel, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, violation of the Truth-in-Lending Act, and unjust enrichment. No specific monetary demand was made in the complaint; however, plaintiffs did request compensatory, statutory treble damages and punitive damages, interest, attorneys' fees and costs.
A class has not been certified by the court. The parties are currently in the briefing stage of the motion for class certification and expect the court to hear arguments on the motion in late Q2 or Q3 2012. The Bank is vigorously defending this matter and has proffered considerable arguments as to why the motion should be denied and a class should not be certified. At this time, it is the opinion of management, that the Bank's liability, if any, arising out of this litigation, will not have a material adverse impact on the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
As lawsuits or legal proceedings develop, the Bank monitors the matters for further developments that could affect previous accruals or disclosures, if any, and updates such amounts accrued or disclosures previously provided, as appropriate.
22. Concentration of Credit Risk
The Bank had no concentration of mortgage loans in any state in excess of 10% of the total loan portfolio, except California which was approximately 25% and 26% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, Illinois was approximately 10% at December 31, 2010. See Note 8 for further discussion of concentration of loans by state.
In compliance with disclosure requirements of ASC 275-10, , the Bank has non-traditional loans in the form of interest-only mortgages. The amounts of such loans were $10.5 billion and $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The economic characteristics of these non-traditional loans are considered when management records a provision for loan losses on its mortgage portfolio. The remainder of the Bank's loan portfolio principally includes variable rate loans, for which interest rates generally reset for the first time within three to seven years after the loans' closing date and annually thereafter.
Risks and Uncertainties
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table summarizes the combined fair value of the Bank's available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investment securities by credit rating as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
23. Stock-based Compensation
Select Bank employees may be awarded stock-based compensation in the Global Parent Company's stock as a form of variable, performance-based compensation. The Bank accounts for stock-based compensation issued to employees in accordance with the fair value provisions of ASC 718-10, . The stock-based compensation plans are managed entirely by the Global Parent Company. In accordance with the fair value provisions of ASC 718, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, with the expense recognized over the appropriate vesting period using a straight-line method. The fair value of the share-based compensation on the date of grant is calculated by the Global Parent Company using a Monte Carlo simulation-based valuation model which uses the following inputs, as determined by the Global Parent Company: risk free interest rate, expected life, the current stock price, expected volatility and expected dividend yield. The Bank recorded $5.5 million and $2.8 million of total stock-based compensation expense during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in salaries and employee benefits expense within the Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as in paid-in capital from the Global Parent Company.
CompensationStock Options
There are four share-based payment plans managed by the Global Parent Company. The first plan provides stock options which vest over three years, expire after five or ten years, and require a certain continuous period of service. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded $821,000 and $1.3 million, respectively, in expense related to options granted.
 
Table of Contents
 
The second plan provides for the issuance of performance shares. The fair value of performance share awards granted is amortized over the vesting period of the share award and requires a certain continuous period of service. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded $1.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of expense related to the issuance of performance shares.
The third plan provides for the issuance of deferred share units which are issued unconditionally upon the participant remaining an employee for an uninterrupted period of three years from the date of grant. The fair value of deferred share units granted is amortized over the three-year vesting period from the date of grant. On the date of vesting, eligible employees will be entitled to receive the cash equivalent fair value of the deferred share units. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank recorded $747,000 and $270,000 of expense, respectively, related to the issuance of the deferred share units.
During the first quarter of 2011, the Global Parent Company adopted the fourth plan which provides for the issuance of deferred share units or deferred cash payments in accordance with the terms of a Long Term Sustainable Performance Plan (LSPP) agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Bank recorded $2.9 million of expenses related to the issuance of these shares.
24. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts of financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods. The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. For a portion of the Bank's financial instruments, no quoted market exists; therefore, estimates of fair value are based on a number of assumptions regarding the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows, which are discounted to reflect varying degrees of risk. Given the uncertainties surrounding these assumptions, the reported fair values may not represent actual values of financial instruments that could have been realized as of December 31, 2011 or that will be realized in the future. Use of different assumptions or methodologies is likely to result in significantly different fair value estimates.
The Bank accounts for fair value measurement in accordance with ASC 820. In accordance with ASC 825-10-50-10, , the Bank is required to disclose the fair value of financial instruments. A summary of the practices used for determining the Bank's fair value of its financial instruments is as follows:
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Table of Contents
 
Current carrying amounts approximate fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Federal Funds Sold, FHLB Stock, Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase 
   Fair value measurement is based upon prices provided by third-party vendors or quoted prices when available. Third-party vendors may utilize matrix pricing or other model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows, adjusted for the security's credit rating, prepayment assumptions, vintage, and other credit loss assumptions when actual market trades are not available.
Investment Securities
and Securities Sold Not Yet Purchased
Fair value is based on market assumptions which incorporate expected payments, coupon rates and forward interest rate curves. Once determined, the assumptions are used to calculate the present value of the estimated cash flows of the notes.
Notes Receivable Held for Investment and Notes Receivable Held for Sale 
Fair value is based on market based assumptions obtained in the secondary market. The assumptions are used to calculate the present value of the estimated cash flows, using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality.
Loans 
The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, which include checking and savings deposits, are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts). Deposits with a stated maturity, which include time deposits, have been valued using the present value of cash flows discounted at rates approximating the current market for similar deposits.
Deposits 
Borrowings have been valued using the present value of cash flows discounted at rates approximating the current market for similar liabilities.
Borrowings 
 
Table of Contents
 
The fair value and carrying amounts of financial instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized as follows:
 
25. Fair Value Measurement
The Bank accounts for fair value measurements in accordance with ASC 820. ASC 820-10 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. ASC 820-10 requires consideration of a company's own creditworthiness when valuing liabilities.
Determination of Fair Value
The following is a description of the Bank's valuation methodology for investment securities. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices when available. When market quotes are not available, the Bank utilizes an internal process to determine fair value based on a range of external vendor prices. The selection of the vendor price most representative of fair value for the Bank's private label residential mortgage backed securities is driven by an internal process
 
Table of Contents
 
which utilizes regression analysis to determine a hierarchy of the Bank's external vendors based on correlation with recently observed market activity for similar or the same securities. For security classes other than the private label residential mortgage backed securities, the Bank utilizes a vendor hierarchy to value the respective security. The Bank performs internal validation procedures to assess the reasonableness of fair value by asset class. The price selected from the preferred vendor is subject to an outlier test. The outliers are further researched and may result in a different vendor price selection if it is more representative of fair value.
The methods described above may produce a current fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value. The Bank believes that the procedures utilized to determine fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies or different assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a varying range of fair value.
Fair Value Hierarchy
ASC 820-10 specifies a three-level grouping or hierarchy, based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Bank's internal market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy:
Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.
Level 1 
Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuations in which all significant assumptions are observable in the market.
Level 2 
Valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include the use of discounted cash flow models, option pricing models and similar techniques.
Level 3 
ASC 820 requires the Bank to disclose the fair value for financial assets on both a recurring and non-recurring basis. The Bank's policy is to recognize transfers in and transfers out as of period end. There were no transfers between levels during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies utilized by the Bank, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the fair value hierarchy.
 
Table of Contents
 
Assets
  Investment securities trading include odd lot and fractional shares of readily marketable common stock and exchange-traded funds retained when shares are purchased by the Securities Company on behalf of customers. Currently, all investment securities trading on the Bank's books are classified as Level 1 securities as they are all traded on an active exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange.
Investment Securities Trading
  Securities available for sale are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value measurement is based upon quoted prices when available. When market quotes are not available, the Bank utilizes an internally developed process to guide the selection of a third-party vendor price. Level 1 securities, which includes U.S. Treasuries, are those securities traded in an active market. Level 2 securities include U.S. government, foreign government, foreign agency, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, certain private label mortgage-backed and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Level 3 securities include certain private label residential mortgage-backed securities. Level 3 indicates that significant valuation assumptions are not consistently observable in the market due to market illiquidity for certain asset classes. These inputs reflect management's judgment about the assumptions that a market participant would use in valuing the asset and are based on the best available information, some of which is internally developed.
Securities Available for Sale
 Notes receivable held for sale are carried at the lower of amortized cost or fair value and as a result are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The fair value of notes receivable is calculated using a discounted cash flow model, which includes expected cash flows of principal, interest, transaction fees and management fees. These cash flows are based upon a forecast of the underlying cash flows expected to be paid from the Dutch State to the Bank. In addition, the collateral cash flows are used to determine the amount of principal, allocated between the fixed and floating components, and interest that is expected to be received on the Dutch State payments. The expected outstanding balance of the underlying collateral is used to determine the expected annual transaction fee and management fee payments. All cash flows are discounted using the U.S. Treasury yield curve, as the payments from the Dutch State constitute direct and unconditional obligations of a comparable sovereign security. These instruments are classified as Level 3.
Notes Receivable Held for Sale
  Impaired loans are measured for fair value on a non-recurring basis and recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of impaired loans is calculated based upon the present value of expected future cash flows, the market price of the loan, or the fair value of the underlying collateral less cost to sell, if the loan is collateral dependent. As such, these types of loans are classified as Level 2.
Impaired Loans
 
Table of Contents
 
  These properties are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell on a non-recurring basis. Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or appraised values of the property, which are observable inputs. Accordingly, the Bank classifies other real estate owned properties as Level 2.
Other Real Estate Owned Properties
Liabilities
  Securities sold, not yet purchased represent securities that the Bank has sold to other parties but does not own and are fair valued on a recurring basis. The Bank is obligated to purchase these securities at a future date. Fair value measurement for securities sold, not yet purchased is based upon quoted market prices in active markets and, therefore, are classified as Level 1 liabilities. The Bank includes these balances as part of other liabilities.
Securities Sold, Not Yet Purchased
Financial Instruments Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The table below summarizes the Bank's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Table of Contents
 
The table below includes a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (including changes in fair value) for all financial instruments classified by the Bank within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within Level 3, the decision is based on the significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, Level 3 financial
 
Table of Contents
 
instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or Level 3 components, observable components (components that can be validated to external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to unobservable, as well as observable, factors that are part of the valuation methodology.
 
 
No transfers between levels occurred during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.
The table below summarizes gains and losses, due to changes in fair value, which were recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 as well as changes in unrealized gains and losses, also recorded in earnings, during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 for Level 3 assets which were still held as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The amount of Level 3 securities will likely continue to be a function of market conditions. An increase in dislocation and corresponding decrease in new issuance and trading volumes could result in the reclassification of additional securities to Level 3. If market conditions improve and pricing transparency and consistency increase, assets currently classified as Level 3 could be reclassified to a higher level.
Assets Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
The Bank may be required, from time to time, to measure certain assets at fair value on a non-recurring basis in accordance with GAAP, that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, certain assets are carried at the lower of cost or market). The valuation methodologies used to measure these fair value adjustments are described previously in this note. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, these assets were valued in accordance with GAAP and, except for those indicated in the table below which summarizes the Bank's assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, did not require fair value disclosure under the provisions of ASC 820:
 
ING Bank, fsb and Subsidiaries
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and
for the Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
With Report of Independent Auditors
 
26. Regulatory Matters
Previously, as a federal stock savings bank, the Bank was subject to the supervision and regulation of the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"). As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the functions and authority of the OTS were assumed by the OCC on July 21, 2011. As part of the integration of the OTS functions into the OCC, the OTS capital regulations for savings institutions will remain unchanged until the first quarter of 2012. As such, for the third and fourth quarters of 2011, the Bank must maintain "tangible" capital equal to 1.5% of adjusted
 
Table of Contents
 
total assets, "core" capital equal to 4% of adjusted total assets, "Tier 1" capital equal to 4% of risk-weighted assets, and "total" or "risk-based" capital (a combination of core and supplementary capital) equal to 8% of risk-weighted assets, as defined by standards set by the OTS.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory  and possibly additional discretionary  actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Bank's consolidated financial statements. The Bank's capital amounts have been computed in accordance with regulatory practice. At December 31, 2011, management believes the Bank was in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements and is a "well-capitalized" institution. Management anticipates that the Bank will continue to be classified as well-capitalized.
The table below summarizes the Bank's capital position as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
The decline in the Bank's Leverage ratio from December 31, 2010 includes the impact of the deferred tax asset recorded as part of the potential IRS settlement, as discussed in Note 17, which is disallowed in Tier 1 capital. This related increase in Tier 1 capital was partially offset by the projected impact of the sale of the Notes Receivable, as discussed in Note 6.
 
Table of Contents
 
On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor's lowered the long-term rating of the U.S. government and federal agencies from AAA to AA+. As a result of the announcement, the federal banking agencies provided a Joint Release that indicated that for risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights for Treasury securities and other securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, government agencies and government-sponsored entities will not change.
The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation is controlled by certain regulatory restrictions. Generally, dividends declared in a given year by the Bank are limited to its net profit, as defined by regulatory agencies, for that year, combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, the Bank may not declare any dividends if such declaration would leave the bank inadequately capitalized. Therefore, the ability of the Bank to declare dividends will generally depend on its future net income and capital requirements. The Bank did not pay dividends to the Corporation during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
The Bank's deposits are insured to applicable limits by the FDIC. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, the maximum deposit insurance limit was increased permanently to $250,000. In November, 2009, the FDIC amended the assessment regulations to require all insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012 on December 30, 2009. For purposes of estimating the future assessments, each institution's base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 was used, assuming a 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base and a three basis point increase in the assessment rate in 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessment will be applied against actual quarterly assessments until exhausted. Any funds remaining after June 30, 2013 will be returned to the institution. If the prepayment would impair an institution's liquidity or otherwise create significant hardship, it was able to apply for an exemption. Requiring this prepaid assessment does not preclude the FDIC from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system. The Bank's prepaid assessment, which was originally paid in December 2009, was $293.8 million and $422.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in prepaid assets in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.
The Securities Company
The Securities Company is subject to the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1) which requires that the Securities Company maintains minimum net capital equivalent to the greater of $250,000 or 6.67% of aggregate indebtedness, and requires that the ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital shall not exceed 15 to 1. At December 31, 2011, the Securities Company had net capital of $107.0 million, as defined, which was $105.7 million in excess of its required minimum net capital of $1.3 million. The Securities Company ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital was 0.18 to 1 and 0.19 to 1 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Table of Contents
 
Advances to affiliates, repayment of subordinated borrowings, dividend payments, and other equity withdrawals are subject to certain notification and other provisions of the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule or other regulatory bodies.
Under the clearing arrangement with the clearing broker, the Securities Company is required to maintain certain minimum levels of net capital and to comply with other financial ratio requirements. At December 31, 2011, the Securities Company was in compliance with all such requirements.
27. Subsequent Events
After receiving all necessary regulatory approvals and in accordance with the terms of the Bank Sale, Capital One acquired the Bank and certain other U.S. assets and liabilities of the Corporation for approximately $9.0 billion in a combination of cash and shares on February 17, 2012. Immediately prior to the Bank Sale, the Bank sold the IABF notes receivable to ING Bank, N.V. at the February 17, 2012 fair value of the notes for proceeds of approximately $10.9 billion including accrued interest receivable. As a result of the acquisition of the Bank by Capital One, the Bank's assets and liabilities will be recorded at their estimated fair values on February 17, 2012. For more information about the terms of the Bank Sale or the terms of the sale of the IABF notes, see Notes 1 and 6, respectively, in these financial statements.
On February 23, 2012, the FHLB redeemed $18.6 million in stock at par value.
Subsequent to February 17, 2012, the Bank entered into an unsecured intercompany loan agreement with Capital One Bank, NA, ("COBNA") an affiliate of Capital One. Amounts borrowed by COBNA under the intercompany loan agreement as of March 5, 2012 are $6.0 billion. Interest on these borrowings is calculated daily using the then-effective Federal Funds rate.
The Corporation has evaluated subsequent events through March 5, 2012, which is the date these financial statements are being issued, and there are no matters to report other than those previously disclosed in this note.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholder
HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of HSBC Card and Retail Services (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of income, changes in shareholder's equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of HSBC Card and Retail Services as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
March 6, 2012
 
HSBC CARD AND RETAIL SERVICES
 
 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
HSBC CARD AND RETAIL SERVICES
 
 
BALANCE SHEETS
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
HSBC CARD AND RETAIL SERVICES
 
 
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
HSBC CARD AND RETAIL SERVICES
 
 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
 
 
 
HSBC Card and Retail Services is a component of a business of HSBC Finance Corporation ("HBIO") which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. ("HSBC North America" or "Parent") which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc ("HSBC"). HSBC Card and Retail Services may also be referred to in these notes to the consolidated financial statements as "the Business", "the Company", "we," "us" or "our." We issue MasterCard, Visa, American Express and Discover credit card receivables ("Credit Card") and private label receivables to consumers nationwide. HSBC Card and Retail Services has historically operated as a part of its indirect Parent, HSBC North America. HSBC North America has sole ownership of the assets.
 
 
The accompanying carve-out financial statements of HSBC Card and Retail Services have been prepared from the historical accounting records of HSBC North America. The accompanying carve-out financial statements have been prepared as a result of the agreement reached during the third quarter of 2011 to sell the HSBC Card and Retail Services business to Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One"). As the business was historically managed and financed as part of a larger group, its accounts have been adjusted to reflect charges for business functions provided by the Parent and its affiliates.
Historically, financial statements have not been prepared on a stand-alone basis for HSBC Card and Retail Services, as it has not operated separately from its Parent. These financial statements reflect the carve-out financial position and the related results of operations, cash flows, and changes in shareholder's equity for the HSBC Card and Retail Services business described above in a manner consistent with how HSBC North America managed the business and as though HSBC Card and Retail Services had been a stand-alone company for all periods presented. All material assets and liabilities specifically identified to the HSBC Card and Retail Services business have been presented in the carve-out balance sheets; all material revenues and expenses specifically identified to the HSBC Card and Retail Services business and allocations of overhead expenses have been presented in the carve-out statements of operations. The carve-out financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States ("US GAAP"), Regulation S-X, Article 3 "General instructions as to financial statements" and Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") Topic 1-B "Allocations of Expenses and Related Disclosure in Financial Statements of Subsidiaries, Divisions or Lesser Business Components of Another Entity."
Parent's net investment in HSBC Card and Retail Services is shown within shareholder's equity in the financial statements as there was no direct ownership relationship between HSBC North America and the Business (as the Business is not a separate legal entity). HSBC North America's net investment in the Business is presented as "Parent's net investment." Changes in Parent's net investment include net cash transfers and other transfers to and from Parent and the Business. Assets, liabilities, and expenses not specifically identifiable to the Business are reflected in the Parent's net investment account and include:
 
 
 
Transactions between HSBC Card and Retail Services and the Parent and its affiliates have been identified as related party transactions. These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and terms. Payments made by HSBC North America to HSBC Card and Retail Services or to HSBC North America from HSBC Card and Retail Services are presented as transfers to and from parent as a component of Net Parent's Investment. Additionally, the carve-out financial statements for HSBC Card and Retail Services include allocations of costs for certain support functions (see Note 10  Related Party Transactions). In the opinion of HSBC's management, all adjustments have been reflected that are necessary for a fair presentation of the carve-out financial statements. The allocations have been made on a reasonable basis and have been consistently applied for each period presented. The carve-out financial statements may not necessarily reflect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows that HSBC Card and Retail Services might have had in the past, or might have in the future, if it had existed as a separate, stand-alone business during the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Subsequent events have been evaluated through the date these financial statements were issued on March 6, 2012.
In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions with HSBC North America and its affiliates. These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and terms and include funding arrangements, derivative execution, purchases and sales of receivables, servicing arrangements, information technology services, item processing and statement processing services, banking services, human resources, corporate affairs, tax, finance, compliance, legal and other shared services in North America.
Transactions with Related Parties
We maintain an investment portfolio of debt securities (comprised primarily of U.S. Treasury and equity securities). Our entire investment securities portfolio is classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investment securities are intended to be invested for an indefinite period but may be sold in response to events we expect to occur in the foreseeable future. These investments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as adjustments to shareholder's equity in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
Securities
When the fair value of a security has declined below its amortized cost basis, we evaluate the decline to assess if it is considered other-than-temporary. Only the credit loss component of such a decline is recognized in earnings for a debt security that we do not intend to sell and for which it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis. A new cost basis is established for the security that reflects the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment loss recognized in earnings. The non-credit loss related impairment is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Cost of investment securities sold is determined using the specific identification method. Realized gains and losses from the investment portfolio are recorded in other income. Interest income earned on the investment portfolio is classified in the statements of income in net interest income. Accrued investment income is classified with investment securities.
For cash flow presentation purposes, we consider available-for-sale securities with original maturities less than 90 days as short term, and thus any purchases, sales and maturities are presented on a net basis.
Finance receivables are carried at amortized cost, which represents the principal amount outstanding, net of any unearned income, charge-offs, and unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans. Finance receivables are further reduced by credit loss reserves. Finance income, which includes interest income and unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated receivables, is recognized using the effective yield method. Premiums and discounts are generally recognized as adjustments to the yield of the related receivables. Origination fees are deferred and generally amortized to finance income over the estimated life of the related receivables, except to the extent they offset directly related lending costs.
Receivables
Provision for credit losses on receivables is made in an amount sufficient to maintain credit loss reserves at a level considered adequate, but not excessive, to cover probable incurred losses of principal, accrued interest and fees, including late, over limit and annual fees, in the existing loan portfolio. We estimate probable incurred losses using a roll rate migration analysis that estimates the likelihood that a loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off. This analysis considers delinquency status, loss experience and severity and takes into account whether loans are in bankruptcy, have been re-aged, or are subject to forbearance, an external debt management plan, hardship, modification, extension or deferment. Our credit loss reserves also take into consideration the loss severity expected based on the underlying collateral, if any, for the loan in the event of default based on historical and recent trends. Delinquency status may be affected by customer account management policies and practices, such as the re-age of accounts, forbearance agreements, extended payment plans, modification arrangements, and deferments. When customer account management policies, or changes thereto, shift loans from a "higher" delinquency bucket to a "lower" delinquency bucket, this will be reflected in our roll rate statistics. To the extent that restructured accounts have a greater propensity to roll to higher delinquency buckets, this will be captured in the roll rates. Since the loss reserve is computed based on the composite of all these calculations,
Provision and Credit Loss Reserves
 
 
 
this increase in roll rate will be applied to receivables in all respective buckets, which will increase the overall reserve level. In addition, loss reserves on consumer receivables are maintained to reflect our judgment of portfolio risk factors which may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rate calculation. Risk factors considered in establishing loss reserves include product mix, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in unemployment, housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of charge-offs and delinquencies, changes in laws and regulations and other items which can affect consumer payment patterns on outstanding receivables such as natural disasters and global pandemics.
While our credit loss reserves are available to absorb losses in the entire portfolio, we specifically consider the credit quality and other risk factors for each of our products. We recognize the different inherent loss characteristics in each of our products, and for certain products their vintages, as well as customer account management policies and practices and risk management/collection practices. Charge-off policies are also considered when establishing loss reserve requirements. We also consider key ratios such as reserves to nonperforming loans, reserves as a percentage of net charge-offs, reserves as a percentage of two-months-and-over contractual delinquency and months coverage ratios in developing our loss reserve estimate. Loss reserve estimates are reviewed periodically and adjustments are reported in earnings when they become known. As these estimates are influenced by factors outside our control, such as consumer payment patterns and economic conditions, there is uncertainty inherent in these estimates, making it reasonably possible that they could change.
Provisions for credit losses on loans for which we have modified the terms of the loan as part of a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR Loans") are determined using a discounted cash flow impairment methodology. During 2011, we adopted a new Accounting Standards Update which provided additional guidance for determining whether a restructuring of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring for purposes of the identification and reporting of troubled debt restructurings as well as for recording impairment. Under this new guidance, we have determined that all receivables modified as a result of a financial difficulty for periods of greater than three months, regardless of whether the modification was permanent or temporary, should be reported as TDR Loans. Prior to 2011, loans which have been granted a permanent modification, a twelve-month or longer modification, or two or more consecutive six-month modifications were considered TDR Loans. Modifications may include changes to one or more terms of the loan, including but not limited to, a change in interest rate, an extension of the amortization period, a reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment of principal or accrued interest. TDR Loans are considered to be impaired loans. Interest income on TDR Loans is recognized in the same manner as loans which are not TDRs. Once a loan is classified as a TDR, it continues to be reported as such until it is paid off or charged-off.
Our loans are generally charged-off by the end of the month in which the account becomes six months contractually delinquent. Charge-off involving a bankruptcy occurs by the end of the month at the earlier of 60 days after notification or 180 days delinquent. Interest generally accrues until charge- off.
Charge-Off and Nonaccrual Policies and Practices
Delinquency status for loans is determined using the contractual method which is based on the status of payments under the loan. An account is generally considered to be contractually delinquent when payments have not been made in accordance with the loan terms. Delinquency status may be affected by customer account management policies and practices such as the restructure, re-age or modification of accounts.
Net Properties and equipment are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. For financial reporting purposes, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets which generally range from 3 to 40 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the improvement or the term of the lease. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.
Properties and Equipment,
Intangible assets currently consist of purchased credit card relationships and related programs, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. These estimated useful lives range from seven to ten years for certain purchased credit card relationships and related programs. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment using discounted cash flows annually, or earlier if events indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We consider significant and long-term changes in industry and economic conditions to be our primary indicator of potential impairment. Impairment charges, when required, are calculated using discounted cash flow models, which include inputs and assumptions consistent with those used by market participants.
Intangible Assets
 
 
 
Federal Reserve Bank Stock is recorded at cost. We consider whether there have been any events or economic circumstances to indicate that impairment on such securities has occurred.
Federal Reserve Bank Stock
On a daily basis, receivables related to the HSBC Bank USA, N.A. ("HBUS") banking relationship are sold to affiliates and settled for cash proceeds. Such transactions achieve sale accounting treatment as the receivables are deemed transferred beyond the reach of HSBC Card and Retail Services and its creditors, the purchaser has the right to pledge or exchange the receivables, and the Business has surrendered control over the transferred receivables. To the extent sales accounting treatment is achieved, the receivables are removed from the balance sheet and a gain/(loss) on sale is recognized.
Gain on Sale of Receivables
Gain on sale of receivables are recorded at the time of the sale of the receivable balances to affiliates and represent the excess of the sales proceeds over the carrying value of receivables sold.
The sales price for each type of portfolio is determined using a fair value which is calculated semi-annually in April and October by an independent third party. A discounted cash flow valuation methodology is used which discounts the projected future cash flows of the receivables. The future cash flows are developed using business projections reflecting historical performance and adjusting for key factors such as the projected economic and regulatory environment. The key assumptions applied in the valuation include the payment rates, rates of estimated defaults and credit losses, the interest rates of the receivables and the discount rate. The independent third party provides a fair value range and the Business uses the midpoint of the fair value range in determining the price for the daily sale of receivables.
Wages, salaries, and bonuses are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Business. Certain employees of the Business participate in share-based payment plans, pension plans, and other post retirement plans sponsored by the Parent. A charge for HSBC Card and Retail Services' employee participation in these plans has been included in the income statement.
Employee Benefits
HSBC's historic consolidated financial statements included the HSBC Card and Retail Services operations. For purposes of these carve-out financial statements, HSBC Card and Retail Services' taxes are computed and reported on a "separate return" basis. Income taxes as presented herein allocate current and deferred income taxes of HSBC to HSBC Card and Retail Services in a manner that is systematic, rational, and consistent with the asset and liability method prescribed by ASC 740, . The separate return method applies ASC 740 to the stand-alone financial statements of each member of the consolidated group as if the group member were a separate taxpayer and a stand-alone enterprise. Accordingly, the sum of the amounts allocated to the carve-out tax provisions may not equal the historical consolidated provision. As a result, actual tax transactions included in the consolidated financial statements of the Parent may not be included in the carve-out financial statements of the Business. Similarly, the tax treatment of certain items reflected in the carve-out financial statements of the Business may not be reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Parent.
Income Taxes
Income Taxes
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their respective income tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and the Business establishes a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
The Business accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, . The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.
Accounting For Uncertainty In Income Taxes
 
 
 
New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted
In July 2010, the FASB issued an Accounting Standards Update to provide more transparency about an entity's allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of its financing receivables. The new disclosures about troubled debt restructurings became effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010. See Note 5, "Receivables," in these consolidated financial statements for the expanded disclosure on troubled debt restructurings.
Credit Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses Disclosures
In April 2011, the FASB issued an Accounting Standards Update which provided additional guidance to assist creditors in determining whether a restructuring of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring, for purposes of the identification and disclosure of troubled debt restructurings, as well as for recording impairment. In the third quarter of 2011, we adopted this Accounting Standards Update. As required, the new guidance was applied retrospectively to restructurings occurring on or after January 1, 2011 and for purposes of measuring impairment on these receivables, a discounted cash flow approach was applied. The impact of adopting this new Accounting Standards Update was not significant.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
 
Securities consisted of the following available-for-sale investments:
 
 
 
 
 
There are no unrealized losses at December 31, 2011. A summary of gross unrealized losses and related fair values as of December 31, 2010 classified as to the length of time the losses have existed follows:
 
 
On-Going Assessment for Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
On a quarterly basis, we perform an assessment to determine whether there have been any events or economic circumstances to indicate that a security with an unrealized loss has suffered other-than-temporary impairment. A debt security is considered impaired if the fair value is less than its amortized cost basis at the reporting date. If impaired, we then assess whether the unrealized loss is other-than-temporary.
An unrealized loss is generally deemed to be other-than-temporary and a credit loss is deemed to exist if the present value of the expected future cash flows is less than the amortized cost basis of the debt security. As a result, the credit loss component of an other-than-temporary impairment write-down for debt securities is recorded in earnings while the
 
 
 
remaining portion of the impairment loss is recognized net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) provided we do not intend to sell the underlying debt security and it is more-likely-than-not that we would not have to sell the debt security prior to recovery.
For all our debt securities, as of the reporting date we do not have the intention to sell these securities and believe we will not be required to sell these securities for contractual, regulatory or liquidity reasons.
We consider the following factors in determining whether a credit loss exists and the period over which the debt security is expected to recover:
 
 
 
 
 
Gross unrealized losses decreased year-over-year primarily due to the sale of a substantial portion of our securities portfolio. During 2011, after an evaluation of the investment portfolio requirements subsequent to the planned sale of Card and Retail Services to Capital One, the Business sold the majority of its investment portfolio and reinvested the proceeds with the Federal Reserve.
We review our securities for which there is an unrealized loss in accordance with our accounting policies for other- than-temporary impairment. During 2010, certain asset-backed securities were determined to be other-than- temporarily impaired which resulted in an other-than-temporary impairment of $7.3 million being recognized on these investments. The credit loss component of the impairment on these debt securities which totaled $0.2 million was recorded in other income in the statement of income, while the remaining non-credit portion of the impairment loss which totaled $7.1 million, was recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 30, 2010. These securities were subsequently sold in December 2011. At December 31, 2010, we did not consider any other securities in an unrealized loss to be other-than-temporarily impaired because we expected to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the securities and we neither intended to nor expected to be required to sell the securities prior to recovery.
Proceeds from the sale of long-term investments were $1,114 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We realized $22 million and $0.1 million gross gains during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We realized $11 million and nil gross losses in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We realized gross gains related to other-than-temporary impairment of $0.1 million and nil in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We realized gross losses related to other-than-temporary impairment of nil and $0.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 
 
Contractual maturities of and yields on investments in debt securities for those with set maturities were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receivables consisted of the following:
 
MasterCard and Visa annual fees are netted with direct lending costs, deferred, and amortized on a straight-line basis over one year. Deferred MasterCard and Visa annual fees, net of direct lending costs related to these receivables totaled $1 million and $6 million at December 31,2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 
 
We have secured conduit credit facilities with commercial banks which provides for secured financings of credit card receivables on a revolving basis totaling $650 million and $1,150 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, secured financings with a balance of $195 million, with interest rates ranging from 1.16 percent to 1.28 percent, were secured by $355 million of credit card and private label receivables. At December 31, 2010, secured financings with a balance of $345 million, with interest rates ranging from 0.01 percent to 1.60 percent, were secured by $623 million of credit card and private label receivables.
Collateralized Funding Transactions
The following table summarizes the past due status of our receivables at December 31,2011 and 2010. The aging of past due amounts is determined based on the contractual delinquency status of payments made under the receivable. An account is generally considered to be contractually delinquent when payments have not been made in accordance with the loan terms. Delinquency status may be affected by customer account management policies and practices such as re-age or modification. Additionally, delinquency status is also impacted by payment percentage requirements which vary between servicing platforms.
Age Analysis of Past Due Receivables
 
Contractual maturities of our receivables were as follows
Contractual maturities
:
 
 
As a substantial portion of consumer receivables, based on our experience, will be renewed or repaid prior to contractual maturity, the above maturity schedule should not be regarded as a forecast of future cash collections.
 
 
 
The following table summarizes contractual maturities of receivables due after one year by repricing characteristic:
 
 
Accruing receivables 90 or more days delinquent are summarized in the following table.
Nonperforming receivables
 
 
Troubled debt restructurings ("TDR Loans") represent receivables for which the original contractual terms have been modified to provide for terms that are less than what we would be willing to accept for new receivables with comparable risk because of deterioration in the borrower's financial status. During the third quarter of 2011, we adopted a new Accounting Standards Update which provided additional guidance for determining whether a restructuring of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring for purpose of identification and reporting of troubled debt restructurings as well as for recording impairment. The additional credit card TDR Loans reported in the third quarter of 2011 as a result of the adoption of the new Accounting Standards Update was not significant.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
Modifications for credit card and private label receivables substantially involve interest rate reductions which lower the amount of finance income we are contractually entitled to receive in future periods. By lowering the interest rate and making other changes to the loan terms, we believe we are able to increase the amount of cash flow that will ultimately be collected from the loan, given the borrower's financial condition. Re-aging is an account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an account to current. TDR Loans are reserved for based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans' original effective interest rate which generally results in a higher reserve requirement for these loans. Once a loan is classified as a TDR, it continues to be reported as such until it is paid off or charged-off.
 
 
 
The following table presents information about receivables which as a result of an account management action during December 31, 2011 became classified as TDR Loans. During the December 31, 2011, substantially all of the actions reflect loan modifications involving interest rate reductions.
 
The following table presents information about TDR Loans:
 
 
 
The following table discloses receivables which were classified as TDR Loans during the previous 12 months which became sixty days or greater contractually delinquent during year ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
 
Additional information relating to TDR Loans is presented in the table below:
 
Credit quality indicators used for consumer receivables include a loan's delinquency status, whether the loan is performing and whether the loan is considered a TDR Loan.
Consumer Receivable Credit Quality Indicators
The following table summarizes dollars of two-months-and-over contractual delinquency and as a percent of total receivables ("delinquency ratio") for our loan portfolio:
Delinquency
 
The status of our consumer receivable portfolio is summarized in the following table:
Nonperforming
 
 
See discussion of TDR Loans above for further details on this credit quality indicator.
Troubled debt restructurings
 
 
 
 
An analysis of credit loss reserves for continuing operations was as follows:
 
The following table summarizes the changes in credit loss reserves by product/class and the related receivable balance by product during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property and Equipment consisted of the following:
 
Depreciation and amortization expense for continuing operations totaled $36 million and $43 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 
Intangible assets consisted of the following:
 
 
 
During the second quarter of 2011, we completed our annual impairment testing of intangible assets. As a result of this testing, we determined that the fair value of each remaining intangible asset exceeded its carrying value. Therefore, we concluded that none of our intangible assets were impaired.
The weighted-average amortization period for our purchased credit card relationships and related programs as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 106 months.
Intangible amortization expense totaled $138 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Estimated amortization expense associated with our intangible assets for each of the following years is as follows:
 
 
 
As previously discussed above in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies section, though the Business was historically included in the consolidated financial statements of the Parent, the Business' income taxes are computed and reported herein under the "separate return method." Use of the separate return method may result in differences when the sum of the amounts allocated to carve-out tax provisions are compared with amounts presented in consolidated financial statements. In that event, the related deferred tax assets and liabilities could be significantly different from those presented herein. Furthermore, certain tax attributes, e.g., net operating loss carry forwards, which were actually reflected in the consolidated financial statements may or may not exist at the carve-out level.
 
 
 
Total income taxes were as follows:
 
Provisions for income taxes were:
 
The following table summarizes a reconciliation of the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate to the Business' effective tax rate, as a percentage of income before taxes:
 
The effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 was primarily impacted by state taxes.
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of (a) temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes and (b) operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. These items are stated at the enacted tax rates that are expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. In addition, certain corporate allocations were pushed down to the carve-out financial statements, without corresponding assets/liabilities. In such cases, the related deferred tax liability (or deferred tax asset, if applicable) was deemed to remain with HSBC North America and was not recorded by HSBC Card and Retail Services.
Temporary differences which gave rise to a significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
 
 
 
 
HSBC Card and Retail Services are included in HSBC North America's consolidated Federal income tax return and in various combined state income tax returns. As such, we have entered into a tax allocation agreement with HSBC North America and its subsidiary entities included in the consolidated returns which govern the current amount of taxes to be paid or received by the various entities included in the consolidated return filings.
HSBC Card and Retail Services is subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities. Upon audit, taxing authorities may challenge all or part of an income tax position. HSBC Card and Retail Services regularly assesses the outcome of potential examinations in each of the tax jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the amount of unrecognized tax benefit recorded. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax position, HSBC Card and Retail Services has determined it has no uncertain tax positions through December 31, 2011 and 2010. However, audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements and future events that would impact HSBC Card and Retail Services' unrecognized tax benefits are subject to significant uncertainty.
Our consolidated Federal income tax returns are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service for the years 2006 and 2007 and in appeals procedures with the IRS Appeals Office for the tax periods 1998 through 2005. The Federal examination and an appeals resolution is expected to conclude in 2012. We are also subject to Federal examination for the years 2008 and forward. The IRS began their examination of 2008 and 2009 during the third quarter of 2011. We remain subject to state and local tax examinations for years 1998 and forward.
 
 
In the normal course of business, we conduct transactions within HSBC North America, as well as with HSBC and its subsidiaries. These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and terms and include funding arrangements, servicing arrangements, information technology and some centralized support services, item and statement processing services, banking and other miscellaneous services. The following table presents income generated by related party transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting principles related to fair value measurements provide a framework for measuring fair value and focuses on an exit price in the principal (or alternatively, the most advantageous) market accessible in an orderly transaction between willing market participants (the "Fair Value Framework"). The Fair Value Framework establishes a three-tiered fair value hierarchy with Level 1 representing quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Fair values determined by Level 2 inputs are inputs that are observable for the identical asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are inactive, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Transfers between leveling categories are recognized at the end of each reporting period.
The fair value estimates, methods and assumptions set forth below for our financial instruments, including those financial instruments carried at cost, are made solely to comply with disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes included in this quarterly report. The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair value of our financial instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Receivable values presented in the table above were determined using the Fair Value Framework for measuring fair value, which is based on our best estimate of the amount within a range of values we believe would be received in a sale as of the balance sheet date (i.e. exit price). The secondary market demand and estimated value for our receivables has been heavily influenced by the deteriorating economic conditions during the past few years, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behavior, changes in discount rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of receivables. Many investors are non-bank financial institutions or hedge funds with high equity levels and a high cost of debt. For certain consumer receivables, investors incorporate numerous assumptions in predicting cash flows, such as higher charge-off levels and/or slower voluntary prepayment speeds than we, as the servicer of these receivables, believe will ultimately be the case. The investor discount rates reflect this difference in overall cost of capital as well as the potential volatility in the underlying cash flow assumptions, the combination of which may yield a significant pricing discount from our intrinsic value. The estimated fair values at December 31, 2011 and 2010 reflect these market conditions.
 
 
 
The following table presents information about our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value.
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis:
 
 
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2011. Transfers from Level 1 (quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities) to Level 2 (using inputs that are observable for the identical asset or liability, either directly or indirectly) were nil for 2010 and transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 totaled $9 million during 2010 as a result of reclassifications in certain product groupings.
Significant Transfers Between Level 1 and Level 2
 
 
 
The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances for assets recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):
 
The following summarizes the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value and for estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value but for which fair value disclosures are required.
Valuation Techniques
Carrying value approximates fair value due to the asset's liquid nature.
Interest bearing deposits with banks:
Fair value for our available-for-sale securities is generally determined by a third party valuation source. The pricing services generally source fair value measurements from quoted market prices and if not available, the security is valued based on quotes from similar securities using broker quotes and other information obtained from dealers and market participants. For securities which do not trade in active markets, such as fixed income securities, the pricing services generally utilize various pricing applications, including models, to measure fair value. The pricing applications are based on market convention and use inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means. The following summarizes the valuation methodology used for our major security types:
Securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We perform validations of the fair values sourced from the independent pricing services at least quarterly. Such validation principally includes sourcing security prices from other independent pricing services or broker quotes. The validation process provides us with information as to whether the volume and level of activity for a security has significantly decreased and assists in identifying transactions that are not orderly. Depending on the results of the validation, additional information may be gathered from other market participants to support the fair value measurements. A determination will be made as to whether adjustments to the observable inputs are necessary as a result of investigations and inquiries about the reasonableness of the inputs used and the methodologies employed by the independent pricing services.
Federal Reserve Bank stock's fair value was determined to approximate carrying value as carrying value equals redemption value.
Federal Reserve Bank stock:
The estimated fair value of our receivables was determined by developing an approximate range of value from a mix of various sources as appropriate for the respective pool of assets. These sources include, among other items, value estimates from an HSBC affiliate which reflect over-the-counter trading activity; forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions we believe are consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such receivables; trading input from other market participants which includes observed primary and secondary trades; where appropriate, the impact of current estimated rating agency credit tranching levels with the associated benchmark credit spreads; and general discussions held directly with potential investors. For revolving products, the estimated fair value excludes future draws on the available credit line as well as other items and, therefore, does not include the fair value of the entire relationship.
Receivables:
Valuation inputs include estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, default and loss curves, estimated collateral values and market discount rates reflecting management's estimate of the rate of return that would be required by investors in the current market given the specific characteristics and inherent credit risk of the receivables. Some of these inputs are influenced by collateral value changes and unemployment rates. To the extent available, such inputs are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation and other means. We perform periodic validations of our valuation methodologies and assumptions based on the results of actual sales of such receivables. In addition, from time to time, we will engage a third party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of receivables. Portfolio risk management personnel provide further validation through discussions with third party brokers. Since an active market for these receivables does not exist, the fair value measurement process uses unobservable significant inputs which are specific to the performance characteristics of the various receivable portfolios.
 
 
We lease certain offices, buildings and equipment for periods which generally do not exceed 25 years. The leases have various renewal options. The office space leases generally require us to pay certain operating expenses. Net rental expense under operating leases was $12 million and $14 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Lease Obligations
We have lease obligations on certain office space which has been subleased through the end of the lease period. Under these agreements, the sublessee has assumed future rental obligations on the lease.
 
 
 
Future net minimum lease commitments under noncancelable operating lease arrangements were:
 
In addition to the matters described below, in the ordinary course of business, we are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings relating to activities of our current and/or former operations. These legal actions and proceedings may include claims for substantial or indeterminate compensatory or punitive damages, or for injunctive relief. In the ordinary course of business, we also are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal), certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In connection with formal and informal inquiries by these regulators, we receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with various aspects of our regulated activities.
Litigation
In view of the inherent unpredictability of litigation and regulatory matters, particularly where the damages sought are substantial or indeterminate or when the proceedings or investigations are in the early stages, we cannot determine with any degree of certainty the timing or ultimate resolution of litigation and regulatory matters or the eventual loss, fines, penalties or business impact, if any, that may result. We establish reserves for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving litigation and regulatory matters, however, may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for those matters.
Given the substantial or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters, and the inherent unpredictability of such matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements in particular interim or annual periods.
Since June 2005, HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC North America, and HSBC, as well as other banks and Visa Inc. and Master Card Incorporated, have been named as defendants in four class actions filed in Connecticut and the Eastern District of New York; (D. Conn. No. 05- CV-01007 (WWE)): ( E.D.N.Y. No. 05-CV 4520 (JG)); (E.D.N.Y. No. 05-CV-4521 (JG)); and American Booksellers Ass'n v. Visa U.S.A., Inc. et al. (E.D.N.Y. No. 05-CV-5391 (JG)). Numerous other complaints containing similar allegations (in which no HSBC entity is named) were filed across the country against Visa Inc., MasterCard Incorporated and other banks. These actions principally allege that the imposition of a no-surcharge rule by the associations and/or the establishment of the interchange fee charged for credit card transactions causes the merchant discount fee paid by retailers to be set at supracompetitive levels in violation of the Federal antitrust laws. These suits have been consolidated and transferred to the Eastern District of New York. The consolidated case is: ("MDL 1720"). A consolidated, amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs on April 24, 2006 and a second consolidated amended complaint was filed on January 29, 2009. On February 7, 2011, MasterCard Incorporated, Visa Inc., the other defendants, including HSBC Finance Corporation, and certain affiliates of the defendants entered into settlement and judgment sharing agreements (the "Agreements") that provide for the apportionment of certain defined costs and liabilities that the defendants, including HSBC Finance Corporation and our affiliates, may incur, jointly and/or severally, in the event of an adverse judgment or global settlement of one or all of these actions. The Agreements also cover any other potential or future actions that are transferred for coordinated pre-trial proceedings with MDL 1720. While we continue to believe that we have substantial meritorious defenses to the claims in this action, the parties are engaged in a mediation process at the direction of the District Court. Based on progress to date in mediation, we increased our litigation reserves in the fourth quarter of 2011 to an amount equal to our estimated portion of a potential settlement of this matter.
Card Services Litigation
Photos Etc. Corp. et al. v. Visa U.S.A., Inc., et al.
National Association of Convenience Stores, et al. v. Visa U.S.A., Inc., et al.
Jethro Holdings, Inc., et al. v. Visa U.S.A., Inc. et al.
In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant Discount Antitrust Litigation, MDL 1720, E.D.N.Y.
 
 
 
Between July 2010 and May 2011, eight substantially similar putative class actions were filed against our subsidiaries, HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. ("HSBC Bank Nevada") and HSBC Card Services Inc.: (D.N.J. No. 10-CV-03375); (E.D. Pa. No. 10-CV-03213); (W.D. Wash. No. 10-CV-05831); (D. Md. No. 10-CV-03232); (N.D. III. No. 1 l-CV-00548); (S.D. III. No. 10-CV-00786); (South Carolina Court of Common Pleas, 13th Circuit) (filed as a counterclaim to a pending collections action); (C.D. Ca. No. 11-CV-03742). These actions principally allege that cardholders were enrolled in debt cancellation or suspension products and challenge various marketing or administrative practices relating to those products. The plaintiffs' claims include breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unconscionability, unjust enrichment, and violations of state consumer protection and deceptive acts and practices statutes. The action was withdrawn by the plaintiff in March 2011. In July 2011, the parties in executed a memorandum of settlement and filed notices of settlement of all claims in each respective court. The parties have memorialized the terms and conditions of the settlement in a formal agreement, and submitted the settlement on a consolidated basis for approval by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On February 23, 2012, the District Court granted preliminary approval of the settlement and scheduled the final approval hearing for October 1, 2012. We are adequately reserved for the proposed settlement. A motion for class certification and a motion to defer consideration of class certification pending completion of the settlement were recently heard in the action. The motion to defer was granted and the case placed on stay pending progression of the consolidated settlement.
Debt Cancellation Litigation.
Rizera et al. v. HSBC Bank Nevada et al.
Esslinger et al v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
McAlister et al. v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
Mitchell v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
Samuels v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
McKinney v. HSBC Card Services et al.
Chastain v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A.
Colton et al. v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
Mitchell
Rizera, Esslinger, McAlister, Samuels, McKinney and Colton
Chastain
In October 2011, the Attorney General for the State of West Virginia filed a purported class action in the Circuit Court of Mason County, West Virginia, captioned (No. 11-C-93-N), alleging similar claims in connection with the marketing, selling and administering of debt cancellation and suspension products to consumers in West Virginia. In addition to damages, the Attorney General is seeking civil money penalties and injunctive relief. The action was removed to Federal Court and the Attorney General's motion to remand is pending. We have received a similar inquiry from another state's Attorney General, although no action has yet been filed.
State of West Virginia ex rel. Darrell V. McGraw, Jr. et al v. HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. et al.
 
 
A concentration of credit risk is defined as a significant credit exposure with an individual or group engaged in similar activities or having similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
We have historically served non-conforming and non-prime consumers. Such customers are individuals who have limited credit histories, modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit related actions.
Because we primarily lend to individual consumers, we do not have receivables from any industry group that equal or exceed 10 percent of total receivables at either December 31, 2011 and 2010. We lend nationwide and our receivables are distributed as follows at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
 
 
The following table reflects the percentage of consumer receivables by state which individually account for 5 percent or greater of our portfolio.
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined balance sheets of Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or "the Company"), HSBC Finance Corporation's, HSBC USA Inc.'s and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc.'s assets and liabilities for their credit cards and private label credit card business (other than the HSBC Bank USA, National Association consumer credit card program and certain other retained assets and liabilities) (collectively, "HSBC's domestic credit card business"), ING Bank, fsb and Other Assets and Liabilities acquired, primarily real estate, may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of December 31, 2011 and how the combined income statement may have appeared for the year ended December 31, 2011 assuming both acquisitions were completed on January 1, 2011. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of both acquisitions on the combined balance sheets and the combined statements of income under the acquisition method of accounting with Capital One treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of ING Direct and HSBC's domestic credit card business are recorded by Capital One at their estimated fair values as of the date the acquisition is completed. References to "ING Direct" refer to the business and assets of ING Bank, fsb and other assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
It is anticipated that the acquisition of ING Direct will provide Capital One with financial benefits such as expense and funding efficiencies and revenue enhancements and also result in Capital One incurring integration and restructuring expenses, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits and costs will actually be realized. These potential benefits and expenses have not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable; as such, any planned adjustments affecting the balance sheet, income statement, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed acquisition completion date are not included. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the amounts reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are subject to adjustment. The preliminary unaudited pro forma business combination adjustments for the acquisition of ING Direct include the expected business combination adjustments that will be recorded when Capital One finalizes its accounting for the acquisition, which was completed on February 17, 2012, based upon the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The business combination adjustments may be refined as additional information becomes available.
It is anticipated that the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business will provide Capital One with financial benefits such as expense efficiencies and revenue enhancements and also result in Capital One incurring integration and restructuring expenses, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits and costs will actually be realized. These potential benefits and expenses have not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable; as such, any planned adjustments affecting the balance sheet, income statement, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed acquisition completion date are not included. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the amounts reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are subject to adjustment. The preliminary unaudited pro forma business combination adjustments for the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business will vary from the actual business combination adjustments that will be recorded upon the completion of the acquisition based upon changes in the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the Sellers. In addition, subsequent to the acquisition completion dates, there may be further refinements to the business combination adjustments as additional information becomes available.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of Capital One, ING Direct US, and HSBC Card and Retail Services, which are incorporated into this document by reference.
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, combines the December 31, 2011 historical balance sheets of Capital One, ING Direct US, and the HSBC Card and Retail Services assets acquired and liabilities assumed, assuming the companies had been combined on December 31, 2011 under the acquisition method of accounting.
Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheets
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 combines the historical income statements of Capital One, ING Direct and HSBC domestic credit card business assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2011 on a purchase accounting basis.
Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income
 
Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the acquisition is included as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. The historical financial statements of ING Direct US and the assets and liabilities of HSBC's domestic credit card business acquired have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the historical financial statements of Capital One. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("US GAAP") as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. The adoption of new or changes to existing US GAAP subsequent to the preliminary unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statement date may result in changes to the presentation of the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, if material.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes the expected business combination adjustments of ING Direct that will be recorded when Capital One finalizes its accounting for the acquisition, which was completed on February 17, 2012, based upon the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of ING Direct as of the closing date. The business combination adjustments may be refined as additional information becomes available. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information also includes the estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of HSBC's domestic credit card business at their respective fair values based on management's best estimate using the information available at this time. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the purchase price of the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business will be determined after the acquisition is completed and after the completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of HSBC's domestic credit card business' tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final business combination adjustment may differ materially from the pro forma adjustment presented in this document. Increases or decreases in fair value of certain balance sheet amounts and other items of HSBC's domestic credit card business as compared to the information presented in this document may change the amount of the business combination adjustments to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in the accretion or amortization of asset and liability fair value marks. In addition, as discussed further below in "Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments", Capital One is funding certain portions of these acquisitions through the issuance of common stock. Subsequent changes in the common stock price could impact the number of shares issued by Capital One to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business and therefore impact the pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share.
The pro forma basic and diluted potential common shares were calculated using the actual weighted-average shares outstanding for Capital One for the periods presented, plus the incremental shares issued or expected to be issued, assuming the transactions occurred on January 1, 2011.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the acquisitions been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
ING Direct Acquisition
On February 17, 2012, Capital One completed the previously announced acquisition of ING Direct US ("ING Direct") from ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING Direct N.V. and ING Direct Bancorp (collectively, the "ING Direct Sellers"), pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2011, by and among each of the ING Direct Sellers and Capital One (the "Purchase Agreement"). The aggregate consideration paid by the Company in the acquisition was 54,028,086 shares (the "Shares") of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of Capital One and approximately $6.3 billion in cash. ING Direct is headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware. Since launching in the U.S. in 2000, ING Direct  the operating name of ING Bank, fsb, a federally chartered savings bank  has become the largest direct bank in the United States.
The business combination will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, the assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities assumed of ING Direct will be recognized at fair value, with residual bargain purchase gain recognized to the extent the fair value of the net assets exceeds the purchase price. The bargain purchase gain is currently estimated to be approximately $600 million.
On February 17, 2012 Capital One issued the Shares to ING Bank, N.V. as partial consideration for the acquisition. On February 16, 2012, Capital One settled the forward share sale transactions entered into under the letter agreements (the "Forward Sale Agreements"), dated as of July 14, 2011, with each of Barclays Capital Inc., acting as agent for Barclays Capital PLC, and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (collectively, the "Forward Purchasers") relating to the public offering of 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock in July 2011 (the "Offered Shares"). Pursuant to the Forward Sale Agreements, Capital One issued the Offered Shares at settlement. The net proceeds to Capital One were at a forward sale price per share of $48.17 for a total of approximately $1.9 billion. Capital One used the proceeds, along with the issuance of the Shares and cash sourced from existing liquidity, $3.0 billion of which was raised through the senior debt offering completed in July 2011, to fund the acquisition of ING Direct.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business Acquisition
On August 10, 2011, Capital One entered into a Purchase and Assumption Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc. (collectively, the "HSBC Sellers"). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Capital One expects to acquire assets and assume liabilities of the HSBC Sellers' credit card and private label credit card business in the United States (other than the HSBC Bank USA, National Association's consumer credit card program and certain other retained assets and liabilities) at a purchase price equal to (i) the par value of all gross receivables transferred, plus (ii) an 8.75% premium on gross receivables, plus (iii) the appraised value of acquired real property, plus (iv) the net book value of other acquired assets and minus (v) the net book value of all assumed liabilities (the "Purchase Price"), subject to certain adjustments described in the Purchase Agreement (the "Transaction"). At December 31, 2011, the estimated purchase price was $33.9 billion.
The business combination will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, the assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities assumed of HSBC's domestic credit card business will be recognized at fair value, with goodwill recorded in an amount equal to the excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired.
The Purchase Price will be paid in cash, subject to Capital One's option, subject to certain conditions, to pay up to $750 million of the Purchase Price in the form of Capital One's common stock at an issuance price of $39.23 per share. The cash portion of the consideration is expected to be funded primarily with $14.4 billion in cash, most of which was acquired as a result of the acquisition of ING Direct and through the sale of $17.2 billion in securities held available for sale. In addition, Capital One expects to finance approximately $1.0 billion in a debt offering and $1.25 billion through a public equity offering prior to the close of the transaction. The decision to raise any capital and, if so, the amount of capital to be raised will be dependent on a number of factors, including the timing of the closing of our pending acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business, changes in interest rates, regulatory expectations, our results of operations and financial condition and our assessment of the appropriate level of regulatory capital to hold at that time.
Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the acquisitions includes the preliminary unaudited pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, assuming the acquisitions of ING Direct and HSBC's domestic credit card business were completed on December 31, 2011. The preliminary unaudited pro forma income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011 was prepared assuming the acquisitions of ING Direct and HSBC's domestic credit card business were completed on January 1, 2011.
Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of 54.0 million shares of Capital One common stock in connection with the acquisition of ING Direct and the payment of approximately $40.2 billion in cash consideration, of which $6.3 billion relates to ING Direct and $33.9 billion relates to HSBC's domestic credit card business. Common stock issued in conjunction with the acquisition of ING Direct was valued using the exchange ratio noted above in Note 1  .
Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
Reconciliations of the bargain purchase gain recognized as a result of the ING Direct assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the excess consideration paid by Capital One over HSBC's domestic credit card business net assets acquired is as follow:
 
A reconciliation of the excess consideration paid by Capital One over HSBC domestic credit card business' net assets acquired ("goodwill") is as follows:
 
 
Adjustment to recognize cash consideration paid to complete the acquisition. Capital One financed the cash portion of the acquisition through a combination of a public equity offering and debt offerings. Capital One completed its financing of the $6.3 billion cash portion of the transaction via offerings of a forward sale of $1.9 billion of equity ($2.0 billion less expenses of $73 million) settled on February 16, 2012 and the remaining $4.4 billion funded from current liquidity, $3.0 billion of which was raised through a senior debt offering (underwriting fees of approximately $11 million have been recorded as a deferred asset) that were priced during the week of July 11, 2011. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact of the additional borrowings resulted in pre-tax increases to interest expense of $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Due to the fact that this debt was issued early in the third quarter of 2011, Capital One's historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011 already reflected interest expense of approximately $51 million arising from such debt, equating to an annual interest expense of approximately $102 million. Capital One has calculated the cost of the borrowings needed to complete the transaction using an interest rate of approximately 3.43% per annum for the year ended December 31, 2011. Capital One may choose to repay any such additional borrowings with cash from operations, net of securities maturities or future market borrowings.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to recognize cash consideration paid to complete the acquisition. Capital One currently intends to finance the cash portion of the acquisition through a combination of existing cash, cash acquired from the acquisition of ING Direct, the sale of securities held available for sale, a public equity raise and a debt offering. Specifically, Capital One intends to use approximately $14.4 billion in cash, most of which was acquired from the acquisition of ING Direct, $17.2 billion from the sale of securities held available for sale, $1.25 billion through a public equity offering (assumed, for purposes of the pro forma financial statements, to be 25.2 million shares) and $1.0 billion through a debt offering. The decision to raise any capital and, if so, the amount of capital to be raised will be dependent on a number of factors, including the timing of the closing for our pending acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business, changes in interest rates, regulatory expectations, our results of operations and financial condition and our assessment of the appropriate level of regulatory capital to hold at that time. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact of the sale of securities resulted in pre-tax decreases to interest income of $504 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact of the additional borrowings issued resulted in pre-tax increases to interest expense of $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Capital One has calculated the cost of the borrowings needed to complete the transaction using an interest rate of approximately 3.21% per annum for the year ended December 31, 2011. The final financing of the cash portion of the transaction may differ from these preliminary adjustments. The cost of the borrowings may be significantly different based on changes in market rates and Capital One may choose to repay any such additional borrowings with cash from operations, net of securities maturities or future market borrowings.
 
Adjustment to eliminate ING Direct's historical allowance for loan losses and to adjust ING Direct's loan portfolio to fair value. The accretable yield will be recognized over the estimated remaining life of the loan portfolio using the effective yield method. The adjustment reflected is based upon currently available fair value information. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact for recognition of the accretable yield resulted in decreases to interest income of $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, the elimination of provision for loan losses of $465 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 is reflected in the pro forma income statement.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to fair value of HSBC's domestic credit cards business loan portfolio. Revolving loans, representing the majority of the HSBC's domestic credit card business loan portfolio at approximately $30 billion in receivables, will be treated under ASC 310-20 (the "FAS 91 method"). Under the FAS 91 method and based on the principles of ASC 805 and ASC 820, a discount or premium will be recorded equal to the difference between the fair value and the outstanding loan balance at closing and will be recognized over the estimated remaining life of the loan portfolio at an effective yield using the interest method. The adjustment for the premium on revolving loans is $710 million and is based upon preliminary fair value estimates. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact for recognition of the premium amortization resulted in a decrease to interest income of $576 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Non-revolving loans, representing approximately $1 billion in receivables, will be treated under ASC 310-30 (the "SOP 03-3 method"). The majority of non-revolving loans in the HSBC's domestic credit card business loan portfolio are delinquent accounts where revolving privileges have been suspended or revoked. Under the SOP 03-3 method and based on the principles of ASC 805 and ASC 820, the difference between the fair value and the outstanding loan balance at closing will be recorded into an accretable yield and a nonaccretable difference. The accretable yield will be recognized over the estimated remaining life of the loan portfolio at an effective yield under the interest method. The nonaccretable difference is recorded to cover lifetime expected net credit losses and will absorb losses on loans accounted for under the SOP 03-3 method of accounting until it is exhausted. The adjustment for the accretable yield and nonaccretable difference on the non revolving loans in HSBC's domestic credit card business loan portfolio is $0 and ($900) million, respectively. The adjustment reflected is based upon preliminary fair value estimates. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact for losses charged to the nonaccretable difference resulted in a decrease to provision for loan and leases losses of $855 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The final adjustment may be significantly different from this estimated amount.
Adjustment to eliminate historical ING Direct goodwill of $120 million. Because the fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the consideration paid by Capital One, no goodwill has been recognized from the acquisition on ING Direct. Instead, a bargain purchase gain of $461 million was recognized. See the reconciliation of the excess of ING Direct's net assets acquired over consideration paid by Capital One (above) for more information.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to recognize goodwill of $146 million resulting from the acquisition. See the reconciliation of the excess consideration paid by Capital One over HSBC's domestic credit card business net assets acquired above for more information.
 
Adjustment to recognize core deposit intangibles of $201 million and to eliminate ING Direct's other identified intangibles of $64 million, recognize core deposit intangibles and other identifiable intangibles of $288 million ($224 million, net other identified intangibles adjustment), and the related preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact resulting from the acquisition. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact for the adjustment resulted in a net increase to other non-interest expense of $93 million for the intangibles amortization for the year ended December 31, 2011. See "Note 3 for more information.
 Core Deposit Intangibles"
HSBC Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to recognize purchased credit card relationship intangibles of $3.1 billion, a negative valuation for partnership contract intangibles, reflected as a liability of $346 million, and the related preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact resulting from the acquisition. The preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement impact for the adjustment resulted in a net increase to other non-interest expense of $733 million for the intangibles amortization for the year ended December 31, 2011. The final adjustment may be significantly different from this estimated amount. See "Note 4 and "Note 5for more information.
 Purchased Credit Card Relationship Intangibles"
 Partnership Contract Intangibles"
 
Adjustment to fair value ING Direct's interest-bearing deposits of $12 million and other liabilities of $44 million. Approximately $11 million of the adjustment for interest-bearing deposits is recognized as a pro forma adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2011 using the effective yield method.
 
Adjustment to eliminate ING Direct's historical deferred tax liability of $23 million and recognize a reduction of net deferred tax assets, inclusive of the $23 million historical deferred tax liability elimination referred above, of $169 million resulting from the fair value adjustments.
Adjustment to eliminate ING Direct's historical stockholders' equity. The acquisition led to the issuance of approximately 54.0 million shares of Capital One common stock, in addition to the cash consideration discussed in preliminary unaudited pro forma adjustment (A). For purposes of these pro forma financial statements, the issuance of Capital One common stock is recognized in the preliminary unaudited pro forma balance sheet at a value of $48.83 per share, which was the closing price on February 17, 2012 of Capital One's common stock on the NYSE, which results in an increase to Capital One's total stockholders' equity of $2.6 billion. For more detail about the structure of the acquisition of ING Direct, see Note 1 . The final adjustment may be significantly different from this estimated amount.
 Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
HSBC Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to record estimated $105 million gain on sale of securities held available for sale, net of tax. Sale by Capital One to fund a portion of cash consideration for the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business. For more detail about the structure of the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business, see "Note 1  . The final adjustment may be significantly different from this estimated amount.
Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation"
 
Adjustment to eliminate $10 million of amortization for intangible assets recorded on ING Direct's historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to eliminate $138 million of amortization for intangible assets recorded on HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
Adjustment to investment securities available for sale of $19 million, fixed assets of $5 million, and other assets of $6 million resulting from the fair value adjustments. The subsequent depreciation expense does not have a material impact on the preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
Adjustment to reflect the acquisition of $160 million in fixed assets, net of $26 million for fair value adjustments. The subsequent depreciation expense does not have a material impact on the preliminary unaudited pro forma combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Adjustments to reflect the settlement of the note receivable associated with the Illiquid Assets Back-Up Facility (the "Facility"). The Facility was entered into by the parent of ING Direct and the Dutch Government. As a condition to the business combination, the parent of ING Direct settled the note receivable at fair value with cash at closing of the acquisition of ING Direct. This shows the impact of this adjustment as of December 31, 2011 and is reflected in the determination of goodwill based on the adjustment that actually occurred at closing of the acquisition of ING Direct on February 17, 2011. It includes an income statement adjustment for interest income on the note receivable of $159 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
Adjustment to eliminate $40 million of gain on receivables sales to related parties for notes receivable not acquired in HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Adjustment to eliminate $320 million of interest expense for other borrowings not acquired in HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Adjustment to eliminate $17 million of interest income on securities held available for sale not acquired in HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Adjustment to eliminate assets, liabilities and net parent investment not acquired by Capital One and retained by HSBC Holdings plc.
 
Adjustment to remove the impact of HSBC's historical allowance for loan losses, increasing provision expense in HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement by $619 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The adjustment conforms provision expense to the historical net charge-offs in HSBC's domestic credit card business of $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Adjustment to reflect the increase in allowance, arising from purchase accounting, for expected net credit losses on new receivables and the acquired revolving loans of the HSBC's domestic credit card business loan portfolio in excess of the remaining fair value premium arising from purchase accounting. The adjustment assumes an initial allowance position of $0 upon acquisition of the loan portfolio at fair value. To be consistent with the basis for which the pro forma income statement is prepared, the increase in allowance shown reflects what Capital One would have recognized in 2011 based on HSBC's domestic credit card business net credit loss experience during the pro forma period. The adjustment results in an increase to provision expense of HSBC's domestic credit card business historical income statement of $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Capital One's actual allowance following the closing of the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business, anticipated in the second quarter of 2012, will be based on acquired portfolio size, economic conditions and credit loss expectations at the time and may differ materially from the adjustment reflected in the pro forma income statement.
Note 3  Core Deposit Intangibles
ING Direct
The pro forma business combination adjustments include the establishment of core deposit intangibles of $201 million as of December 31, 2011. The $201 million was based on a third-party valuation using a combination of ING Direct specific deposit information and industry specific benchmarks. The amortization of the core deposit intangibles resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
 
Note 4  Purchased Credit Card Relationship Intangibles
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
The pro forma business combination adjustments include the establishment of purchased credit card relationship intangibles of $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2011. The $3.1 billion was based on a preliminary third-party valuation using a combination of HSBC domestic credit card business specific information and industry specific benchmarks. A final analysis and valuation of the purchased credit card relationship intangibles will be performed with the assistance of a third-party expert upon completion of the acquisition of HSBC's domestic credit card business. The amortization of the purchased credit card relationship intangibles resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for year ended December 31, 2011 was assumed to be over a 7-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the purchased credit card relationship intangibles made in connection with the acquisition at a statutory annual tax rate of 36.5%:
 
Note 5  Partnership Contract Intangibles
HSBC's Domestic Credit Card Business
The pro forma business combination adjustments include the establishment of partnership contract intangibles as a liability of $346 million as of December 31, 2011. The $346 million liability was based on a preliminary third-party valuation using a combination of HSBC domestic credit card business partnership specific information and industry specific benchmarks. A final analysis and valuation of the partnership contract intangibles will be performed with the assistance of a third-party expert upon completion of the acquisition and may differ from this estimate. The amortization of the partnership contract intangible liability resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was assumed to be over a 5-year period using a straight-line method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the partnership contract intangibles made in connection with the acquisition at a statutory annual tax rate of 36.5%:
 


