ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Information Concerning Forward looking Statements This report on Form 10 K contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated, depending on a variety of factors such as general economic conditions in different countries around the world, fluctuations in global equity and fixed income markets, changes in commercial property and casualty premium rates, the competitive environment, the actual cost of resolution of contingent liabilities, the final form of the business transformation plan, the ultimate cost and timing of the implementation thereof, the actual cost savings and other benefits resulting therefrom, whether the Company ultimately implements the proposed spin off of its underwriting operations, and the timing and terms associated therewith, and events surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, including the timing and resolution of related insurance and reinsurance issues.  MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Information Concerning Forward Looking Statements", above. On September 11, 2001, the World Trade Center was destroyed. Aon occupied space on several of the higher floors of one of the towers and 175 employees are either confirmed or presumed dead. In 2001, Aon incurred $275 million of expenses (before insurance and reinsurance recoveries) related to this event. These costs include $192 million of insurance benefits paid by Aons Combined Insurance Company of America subsidiary (CICA) under life insurance policies issued for the benefit of deceased employees, and is partially offset by gross reinsurance recoveries of $147 million. Reinsurers have disputed their liability as to approximately $90 million of these gross reinsurance recoveries under a Business Travel Accident (BTA) policy issued by CICA to cover U.S. based employees of subsidiaries of Aon, and legal actions have been filed by both parties. In the first quarter 2002, Aon recorded a pretax $90 million allowance ($56 million after tax or $0.20 per dilutive share) for this potentially uncollectible receivable. This allowance was established due to an April 2002 court ruling (in an unrelated case) that may impact the venue for litigation between Aon and its reinsurers. This ruling has impacted Aons ability to reasonably estimate the probable recovery under the claim. After discussions with the SEC staff regarding the proper timeframe to record the above mentioned allowance, Aon is, by means of this filing, restating its previously issued financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001 to establish a $90 million pretax allowance for the reinsurance recoverable in the fourth quarter 2001 that had previously been established in the first quarter 2002. See also note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Unaudited quarterly financial information for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2001, is also being restated by means of this filing. The effect of Aons revisions were to reduce its net income, basic and dilutive earnings per share, respectively, from $203 million, $0.74 and $0.73 to $147 million, $0.54 and $0.53 for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effect of the revisions for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2001 was to reduce net income from $83 million to $27 million and decrease both basic and dilutive earnings per share from $0.30 to $0.10. The effect of the revisions on Aons Consolidated Statements of Financial 20 Position as of December 31, 2001 resulted in a decrease to both assets and retained earnings of $56 million. Unless otherwise expressly stated, all financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A is presented inclusive of these revisions. In addition, the SEC staff requested that Aon add certain disclosures or not report certain items. This managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations has been amended as appropriate to respond to these requests.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses Aons consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the applicable period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves, and policy and contract claim reserves), restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect its more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Brokerage Commissions and Fees. Commission income is recognized at the later of the billing or effective date of the policy. However, in circumstances where a binding order has been received before the end of the accounting period and coverage is effective, but processing has not yet occurred in the billing system due to timing, an accrual is recorded. The amounts recorded for these accruals are generally consistent from period to period and the total accrual has not materially impacted the historical trend of revenue and earnings in any quarterly or annual period. The Companys policy for estimating allowances for return commissions on policy cancellations is to record an allowance based on a historical evaluation of cancellations as a percentage of related revenue. Certain life insurance commissions, commissions on premiums billed directly by insurance companies and certain other carrier compensation are generally recognized as income when received. Revenues may be recorded in advance of the cash receipts in cases where the amounts due to be received have been confirmed by the insurance company, or when the Company has sufficient information in its records to estimate amounts for premium based revenue accruals in accordance with agreements the Company has with insurance carriers. Commissions on premium adjustments are recognized as they occur. Fees for claims services, benefit consulting, human capital outsourcing, reinsurance services and other services are recognized when the services are rendered. The portion of the revenues received on extended warranty contracts that are for the marketing, administration and servicing of those contracts are reported as earned consistent with the method used to earn the premium portion of those revenues, and revenues that represent administrative fee for service arrangements for which Aon does not bear the underwriting risk, which are earned as those services are performed. These fee for service arrangements include the 21 marketing and servicing of extended warranty contracts on behalf of other companies and brokerage commissions for accident and health products placed with non Aon insurance carriers. Premium Revenue. For accident and health products, premiums are reported as earned in proportion to insurance protection provided over the period covered by the policies. For life products, premiums are recognized as revenue when due. For extended warranty products, premium revenues represent the portion of revenue from these contracts that are submitted to an Aon insurance carrier for coverage and are earned over the period of risk in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided in accordance with FASB Statement No. 60, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises. Contingencies Aon and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, tax assessments and lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. Pension Benefit Obligations We have significant pension benefit obligations that are developed from internal actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations and related net periodic costs or credits are key assumptions including discount rates, interest rates and expected return on plan assets. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in selecting these assumptions. Changes in the pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. Policy Liabilities To establish policy liabilities we rely upon estimates for reported and anticipated claims, our historical experience, other actuarial data and, with respect to accident and health and life liabilities, assumptions on investment yields. While management believes its estimation methodologies effectively measure these liabilities, a change from historical experience or a material deviation from our underlying assumptions could affect the ultimate results that are reported in Aons consolidated financial statements.  GENERAL Aon has three operating segments: Insurance Brokerage and Other Services, Consulting, and Insurance Underwriting. These segments are based on client type and services or products delivered. Aon has a fourth, non operating segment, Corporate and Other. References to organic revenue growth exclude the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, transfers, investment income, foreign exchange and unusual items. Written premiums are the basis for organic revenue growth within the Insurance Underwriting segment, but reported revenues reflect earned premiums. References to income before income tax exclude minority interest related to the issuance of 8.205% mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (capital securities) (see note 11) and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (see note 1). 22 The accounting policies for the business segments are identical to those described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Planned Divestiture Underwriting Businesses On April 20, 2001, Aons Board of Directors approved, in principle, a plan to spin off its insurance underwriting businesses to Aons common stockholders, creating two independent, publicly traded companies. The spin off would take the form of a tax free stock dividend of the outstanding shares of common stock of Combined Specialty Group, Inc. (formerly known as Combined Specialty Corporation), a new company formed to hold the insurance underwriting businesses. The transaction requires final Board approval, a favorable Internal Revenue Service tax ruling and certain insurance regulatory approvals and was expected to be completed in spring 2002. See "Recent Developments" for an update on the planned divestiture. In October 2001, Aon announced plans to expand its underwriting operations to include direct property and casualty insurance policies to meet clients growing demand for insurance coverage. These expanded operations are intended to be part of the divestiture and may require the raising of additional capital. Also, in 2001, our underwriting subsidiaries invested $227 million to obtain an ownership interest in Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. (Endurance), a newly formed Bermuda based insurer, which offers property and casualty insurance and reinsurance on a worldwide basis. Aon co sponsored this company to support client demand for much needed underwriting capacity to commercial property and casualty insurance and reinsurance customers. This investment will allow Aon to participate in the growth expected in these areas. It is anticipated that after the divestiture of Combined Specialty, the Endurance investment will be owned by a Combined Specialty entity. World Trade Center On September 11, 2001, the World Trade Center in New York was destroyed. Aon occupied space on several of the higher floors of one of the towers, where employees from insurance brokerage, human capital consulting, claims servicing, other specialty operations and accident, health and life insurance underwriting worked. Tragically, 175 of these employees are either confirmed or presumed dead. The events of September 11 have had an unfavorable impact on near term financial results due in part to the loss of many highly talented employees. Other factors include business interruption issues and supplemental benefits granted to families of deceased employees. The exact financial impact on Aon from these events is not currently determinable. Future insurance claims may offset some of these costs. Aons 2001 results include $158 million of identified World Trade Center costs that have been reported as a pretax unusual charge. These expenses are principally composed of insurance benefits of $45 million, net of approximately $147 million of gross reinsurance recoveries, provided under insurance policies issued by Aons Combined Insurance Company of America (CICA). Reinsurers have disputed liability as to approximately $90 million of these gross reinsurance recoveries under a Business Travel Accident policy issued by CICA to cover U.S. based employees of subsidiaries of Aon Corporation, and legal actions have been filed by both parties. Aon has restated its 2001 results to record a pretax $90 million allowance ($56 million after tax) for this potentially uncollectible receivable in the fourth quarter. Aon continues to believe that CICA has valid reinsurance. Also see "Recent Developments". Other unusual charges related to the World Trade Center include a $10 million commitment to the Aon Memorial Education Fund to support the educational needs of the children of Aon employees who were victims of the September 11 attacks, and $13 million of other costs that may not be recoverable from insurance. Additional World Trade Center related costs are expected in 2002. Most costs incurred have been offset, where appropriate, by insurance claims. Other costs and recoveries remain to be identified and 23 quantified, including business interruption issues. Aon also had $33 million of depreciable assets at book value destroyed that it has written off. It expects to recover full replacement value for these depreciable assets from its insurance policies. A gain would be reported to the extent the insurance proceeds exceed the book value of the destroyed assets. As analyses of the potential business interruption issues continue, and as additional claims are presented, a gain could potentially be recognized in a future period.  SPECIAL CHARGES General Aons special charges are reflected in general expenses on the consolidated statements of income. Aons unpaid liabilities relating to the business transformation plan, special charges and purchase accounting are reflected in general expense liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position. Business Transformation Plan In fourth quarter 2000, after final approval by its Board of Directors, Aon began a comprehensive business transformation plan designed to enhance client service, improve productivity through process redesign, and accelerate revenue growth. The majority of the plan costs relate to the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment, principally in the U.S. and the United Kingdom, where most of Aons offices and employees are located. In U.S. retail brokerage, the plan entailed extensive process redesign following the rollout of a new policy management and accounting system (completed in 2000), and substantial job redesign based on functional expertise and the creation of four new Client Service Business Units (CSBUs). There were unexpected delays in implementing components of the plan due to challenges in handling higher volumes of information transfers between field operations and the CSBUs as well as the destruction of Aons largest and most advanced CSBU, which was housed in the World Trade Center. This delay also adversely affected new business production, as attention was diverted from generating new accounts to completing client conversions and maintaining service to existing New York region clients from Aons offices throughout the U.S. Expenses have been higher than expected, due in part to additional temporary employee expense necessary to complete the account conversions to the CSBUs, as well as increased compensation for certain brokerage employees and the hiring of employees with specialized skills. The changing dynamics of the insurance marketplace following the World Trade Center disaster have also increased the time requirements and expense for handling certain job functions. The implementation and results of the Companys business transformation plan for the Companys U.S. retail brokerage operations can only be fully understood in the context of the unprecedented events that occurred during the implementation of the plan: The Companys largest U.S. retail brokerage office, then located in the World Trade Center, was destroyed on September 11, 2001; 1,100 of the Companys employees worked in the World Trade Center, including employees from all of the Companys major businesses; 250 additional employees either worked in other lower Manhattan offices or were visiting the World Trade Center from around the world on September 11th, which demonstrates the significance of this office to the Companys global operations; 175 of the Companys employees died in the World Trade Center attack on September 11th; Displaced World Trade Center employees had to be relocated to other New York City metropolitan offices; 24 The Companys largest and most advanced retail brokerage CSBU (back office regional service center) an important element of the business transformation that had been built and staffed just months before was destroyed on September 11th and had to be rebuilt in Manhattan while client work was rerouted to the remaining three CSBUs in the U.S.; Regular client servicing was referred to other offices of the Company for handling over varying periods of time until employees had proper temporary work facilities; The September 11th attacks thrust the insurance industry into the most tumultuous period in its recent history; Client demand for risk management advice and services has grown dramatically since September 11th; Premium rates have accelerated to their highest levels in decades; Insurance capacity has been restricted and policy coverage has tightened; Workloads for insurance brokers to complete similar tasks have significantly increased; and Competitive demand for risk management professionals has risen along with compensation requirements. A summary of the business transformation costs follows, with more complete descriptions following the summary table. Business Transformation Costs 2000 2001 Plan Total (millions except per share data and employees data) Pretax expense $ 82 $ 218 $ 300 After tax expense 50 133 183 Dilutive EPS 0.19 0.49 0.68 PRETAX EXPENSE BY TYPE: TERMINATION BENEFITS $ 54 $ 109 $ 163 # OF EMPLOYEES (APPROXIMATE) 750 3,150 3,900 EXIT COSTS, IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER EXPENSES $ 28 $ 109 $ 137 Abandoned real estate or equipment losses 2 10 12 Impairment of fixed assets 20 10 30 Obligations related to automobile dealer partnerships 44 44 Exit of certain joint venture operations 12 12 Litigation matters and discontinuance of A&H business in one state 14 14 Commission receivable write off 5 5 Direct costs to complete transformation, cash settlements and other costs 6 14 20 Total pretax expense $ 82 $ 218 $ 300 In connection with the overall plan and other strategic initiatives, the Company recorded total net expenses of $300 million: $82 million ($50 million after tax or $0.19 per share) in 2000 and $218 million ($133 million after tax or $0.49 per share) in 2001. In recording these expenses, the Company followed the accounting guidance from EITF 94 3, SAB 100, FASB Statement No. 121 and FASB Statement No. 5. The expenses incurred under the guidance contained in EITF 94 3 and SAB 100 were recorded in each of the years referenced above. In each year that the Company recorded accruals for either termination benefits and or other costs to exit an activity, the Company had met all of the requirements contained in EITF 94 3 and SAB 100 prior to recording an accrual, although the Companys board approved the high level plan in the fall of 2000. The reason that these expenses were 25 incurred over two years was that different Company units completed detailed plans and satisfied the employee notification requirements in different timeframes. The $300 million excludes both transition costs primarily relating to parallel system processing and increased compensation for certain U.S. retail brokerage employees. These transition costs amounted to $30 million in 2001. The expenses pertaining to the Companys U.S. retail brokerage operation were approximately 19% of the total charge. The Company does not anticipate additional expenses from the business transformation plan. Expense amounts of $54 million and $109 million for termination benefits were included in 2000 and 2001, respectively, covering notification of 750 employees in 2000 and 3,150 employees in 2001. A portion of the overall employment reduction was expected to be accomplished through normal attrition and, therefore, no expense was attributable to those reductions. When the overall business transformation plan was announced in late 2000, the Company estimated a net reduction in personnel of 3,000 3,500. This range included an estimated new hire level of 500 people. By June 30, 2001, the last of the three consecutive quarters that the execution of the detailed plans occurred and termination benefits and other costs were incurred, the Companys charges included termination benefits for 3,900 employees. The new hire level has grown to approximately 900 people related to the business transformation plan; this heightened level of rehires is causing the Company to reach the lower end of the net reduction range. The gross employee reduction level, which is the number tied to the charge for termination benefits, has remained consistent since the commitment date, with the exception of approximately 200 U.S. retail employees. See "Recent Developments" for an update on the business transformation plan. Of the 3,900 notified employees, more than 3,050 had been removed from the payroll as of December 31, 2001. Approximately 500 and 150 of the remaining notified/not terminated employees are associated with international and domestic business units, respectively, where the exit plans included later termination dates. Employment laws in certain countries require extended periods before a notified employee can be terminated. These exit plans were sufficient in detail as to specific employee groups and, in some cases, specific employees. The employee groups were, at or before the expense accrual date, properly notified and were given adequate information about severance benefits. The plans are being completed in accordance with the original exit plans. The run off of the associated liability will trail the completion of the plan primarily because the Companys policy is to pay severance ratably over the eligible period, rather than in a lump sum amount, whenever possible. Included in the total expense of $300 million are approximately $27 million in other costs to exit an activity. Of that amount, $6 million was incurred in 2000, including $2 million in abandoned real estate or equipment leases and $4 million of direct costs necessary to complete portions of the business transformation plan, cash settlements necessary to exit contractual obligations and other costs. In 2001, $21 million of expenses were recorded to exit an activity, which included $10 million for abandoned leases and $11 million for direct costs necessary to complete portions of the business transformation plan, cash settlements necessary to exit contractual obligations and other costs. As part of the business transformation and other strategic initiatives, other expenses of $110 million were incurred. Of this total, $22 million was recorded in 2000. Impairment of fixed assets accounted for $20 million of the 2000 expense, including $16 million for information systems assets. The net book value of these assets was written off, as these assets no longer had value to the Company. The assets were considered impaired due to: (1) the system being removed from service or (2) the system being under development and the decision to abandon development occurred as a result of the transformation. The other fixed assets, comprised of certain technology infrastructure equipment, were deemed to be impaired as they ceased to have any value to the Company due to the outsourcing of the relevant function to an outside party and the abandonment of the assets. There was $2 million of other costs. 26 Other expenses of $88 million were recorded in 2001. The Company has acted as a servicing agent for a limited partnership affiliated with automobile dealerships to provide auto financing to dealerships on a cooperative basis through various financing conduit facilities. The Company also has a general partnership interest in the limited partnership. Continued competition from financing provided by the financing arms of automobile manufacturers caused the Company to evaluate whether it wished to continue in this servicing partner relationship. In first quarter 2001, the Company elected to cease new servicing business and run off its existing service obligation. The limited partnership affiliated with automobile dealerships establishes allowances for uncollectible loan balances. In conjunction with the decision to discontinue new auto financing receivables, the limited partners are not obligated to contribute additional capital beyond what they have already provided for any shortfall in the reserves for their individual book of business. The Company is required to fund any shortfalls in accordance with the Companys limited recourse to the funding facility, arranged by the servicing agent. The servicing agent estimated the liability that the Company would have for the existing shortfall at the time the Company decided to discontinue new auto loan financing under the facility. The Company recorded a charge to establish this obligation in accordance with FASB Statement No. 5, which amounted to an expense of $44 million. For the year 2000, the last full year of operation, these servicing operations, which were part of the Companys brokerage segment, generated revenue of $42 million and pretax income of $3 million. During 2001, the Company exited four other joint venture operations as a part of its business transformation process. For the year 2000, the last full year of operation, these joint ventures, which were part of the Companys brokerage segment, generated less than $1 million of revenue and incurred nearly $3 million of pretax losses. The total cost to exit these four joint ventures was $12 million. Additional expenses in 2001 included a provision of $14 million for discontinuing supplemental accident and health insurance business operations in Mississippi. The charge included severance costs and expenses associated with the reassignment of agents, as well as estimated costs for resolving asserted and unasserted claims and suits. A $5 million expense was recorded relating to the write down of certain agent receivables in conjunction with the restructuring of a worksite marketing agent commission pay structure and operations. Further fixed asset impairments of $10 million (of which $9 million related to information systems assets) were taken in 2001, as well as $3 million of other costs. The insurance brokerage industry has experienced significant expansion since September 11th with increased client demand for risk management services that was not anticipated at the origination of the business transformation. This unanticipated expansion has also caused some of the delay in the implementation of the plan. The Company has incurred additional spending, which partially explains the offset in savings, to take advantage of this industry expansion. However, revenue growth has not yet achieved expected levels as a result of this additional spending. 1999 In first quarter 1999, Aon recorded expenses of $163 million ($102 million after tax or $0.39 per share). The expenses included provisions for restructuring in the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting segments of $120 million (see note 4). Also, in the Consulting segment, expenses of $43 million were recorded in first quarter 1999 to reflect amounts required to compensate customers who switched out of their company pension plans in the U.K. based upon advice offered by financial advisors of current Aon subsidiaries. This advice was given prior to Aons purchase of these subsidiaries (see note 15). In fourth quarter 1999, Aon recorded expenses of $150 million ($93 million after tax or $0.35 per share). These expenses reflect an additional amount related to the pension payments described above 27 following changes in U.K. government requirements and amounts relating to various litigation matters including Unicover (see note 15). Aon anticipates the final settlement of the liabilities relating to the U.K. pension selling to be disbursed over the next few years. Portions of the Unicover matter were settled in early 2000. The remaining Unicover issues are complex and, therefore, the timing and amount of resolution cannot be determined at this time.  CONSOLIDATED RESULTS The consolidated results of operations follows: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (Restated) (millions) Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 5,436 $ 4,946 $ 4,639 Premiums and other 2,027 1,921 1,854 Investment income 213 508 577 Total consolidated revenue 7,676 7,375 7,070 Expenses: General expenses 5,813 5,190 5,214 Benefits to policyholders 1,111 1,037 973 Interest expense 127 140 105 Amortization of intangible assets 158 154 143 Unusual charges World Trade Center 158 Total expenses 7,367 6,521 6,435 Income before income tax(1)(2) $ 309 $ 854 $ 635 (1)Excludes minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. (2)Includes $218 million, $82 million and $313 million of one time items for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Consolidated Results for 2001 Compared to 2000 Revenue. Revenue of $7.7 billion in 2001 rose 4% over 2000. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange rates, revenues increased 6% over the comparable period. Improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, as well as premiums earned, were partially offset by a decline in investment income resulting from decreased valuations of limited partnerships and lower interest rates, higher losses on disposals of investments and a falloff in parts of U.S. retail brokerage revenue primarily due to slower new account generation and below normal client retention. Aon does not directly hedge revenues against foreign currency translation because it is not cost effective, but does attempt to mitigate the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on pretax income. Consolidated revenue for the operating segments grew approximately 8% on an organic basis over 2000. 28 Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 4,463 $ 4,350 $ 4,131 United Kingdom 1,390 1,363 1,352 Continent of Europe 938 833 841 Rest of World 885 829 746 Total revenue $ 7,676 $ 7,375 $ 7,070 U.S. consolidated revenue, which represents 58% of total revenue, increased 3% in 2001 compared to 2000, as organic growth and acquisition activity was partially offset by declines in parts of the retail brokerage business as well as a significant drop in investment income. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue combined increased 6% to $2.3 billion and Rest of World revenue increased 7% to $885 million reflecting acquisitions, new business and the impact of increasing premium rates that tend to increase commissions. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 10% to $5.4 billion. This improvement was primarily from organic growth in non U.S. retail brokerage and worldwide reinsurance brokerage, business combination activity (especially Actuarial Sciences Associates, Inc. (ASA) and ASI Solutions Incorporated (ASI)), increased new business and the impact of increased property and casualty premium rates. This was offset somewhat by unfavorable results in parts of U.S. retail brokerage due to delays in the implementation of the business transformation plan. Premiums and other is primarily related to insurance underwriting operations. Premiums and other improved to $2.0 billion, a 6% increase over 2000. The increase primarily reflects continued organic growth, strong growth in lower margin new business initiatives and the impact of the acquisition of First Extended, Inc. This was somewhat offset by the loss of some accounts in the warranty business, in addition to a general slowdown in the economy. Investment income, which includes related expenses and income or loss on disposals and impairments, decreased significantly when compared to 2000, primarily reflecting reduced valuations on equity investments in limited partnerships and lower short term interest rates. The comparison is also negatively impacted by the other than temporary impairment recorded for certain directly owned equity investments in the first and fourth quarters of 2001. Returns on private equity investments tend to fluctuate due to the inherent volatility of equity securities. Investment income from the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting segments, primarily relating to fiduciary funds, decreased $31 million compared to 2000, principally due to declining interest rates. Expenses. General expenses grew $623 million or 12%, reflecting expenditures to grow the brokerage business, the impact of acquisitions and increased costs related to the business transformation plan including transition costs. Excluding expenses related to the business transformation plan, expenses rose 10%. Benefits to policyholders, which excludes the World Trade Center costs, rose $74 million or 7% as a result of new underwriting initiatives and an unusual increase in warranty claims related to an isolated program that will not affect future periods. Interest expense declined $13 million or 9% compared to prior year attributed to decreases in short term interest rates and lower average debt balances. Unusual charges World Trade Center represent $135 million of insurance benefits paid, a $10 million commitment to the Aon Memorial Education Fund to support the educational needs of the children of Aon employees who were victims of the September 11 attacks and $13 million of other costs that may not be recoverable from insurance. 29 Income Before Income Tax. Income before income tax declined significantly from $854 million in 2000 to $309 million in 2001, due partially to the inclusion in 2001 of expenses related to the events of September 11 ($158 million) with no comparable amount in 2000. In addition, slower revenue growth in parts of the U.S. retail brokerage business due to delays in the implementation of the business transformation plan negatively impacted results. Results also declined from 2000 due to an increase in year over year business transformation expenses of $136 million and a decline in consolidated investment income of $295 million. All of Aons consolidated income before income tax is from non U.S. operations. Income Taxes. The effective tax rate was 39.5% for 2001 and 39.0% for 2000. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions and the non deductibility of certain goodwill amortization. Net Income. 2001 net income declined to $147 million ($0.53 per dilutive share) compared to $474 million ($1.79 per dilutive share) in 2000. In 2000, the Company adopted the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB)No. 101, which resulted in a one time cumulative non cash charge of $7 million after tax ($0.03 per share). Basic net income per share was $0.54 and $1.81 for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Dividends on the redeemable preferred stock have been deducted from net income to compute income per share. Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2001 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2000 Total revenues in the quarter rose 4%. The impact of the change in foreign exchange rates was minimal for the quarter. The higher revenues reflect 9% organic growth in the operating segments, including the impact of premium rate increases, as well as business combination activity. These factors were somewhat offset by a revenue decline in parts of the U.S. retail brokerage area due to the negative impact of delays in the implementation of the business transformation plan, lower investment income as a result of lower interest rates, a decline in limited partnership income due to valuation changes and loss on disposal of investments mainly due to other than temporary impairments. Total expenses increased 10% to $2 billion as a result of costs and investments in new business initiatives, acquisitions, the establishment of an allowance for a potentially uncollectable reinsurance receivable related to the World Trade Center of $90 million and transition costs related to the business transformation plan. Partially offsetting these increases was a 24% decline in interest expense, primarily reflecting lower interest rates and lower debt levels and $82 million of expenses related to the business transformation plan recorded in 2000. Income before income taxes fell 61% to $64 million. Consolidated Results for 2000 Compared to 1999 Revenue. Total revenue was $7.4 billion, an increase of 4% on a reported basis. On a comparable currency basis, total revenue growth was 7%. This increase was largely attributable to new business growth in the operating segments, business combination activity and the impact of improving premium rates across the property and casualty insurance markets. Negative foreign exchange translations, the absence of Unicover revenue and a significant decrease in corporate and other investment revenues associated with lower income on disposals of securities hurt revenue growth. Consolidated organic revenue growth was approximately 8% over 1999. U.S. revenues increased 5% in 2000 compared to 1999, primarily due to organic growth and acquisitions. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues increased slightly to $2.2 billion and Rest of World revenue of $829 million increased 11% in 2000, reflecting acquisitions and new business. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 7% to $4.9 billion, primarily from organic growth of new business and from business combination activity. Partially offsetting the growth was the negative impact of foreign exchange rates. 30 Premiums and other increased 4% in 2000 to $1.9 billion. This increase was generated by continued strong growth in the accident and health core businesses driven by the continued expansion of product distribution through worksite marketing programs and the development of new product initiatives introduced in 1999 on a global basis. Revenue growth was partially offset by a reduction in extended warranty revenues primarily from the intentional discontinuation of one major warranty renewal and the loss of revenue from the exit of a major retailer from the appliances and electronics line. Investment income of $508 million declined 12% in 2000, principally reflecting lower levels of income on disposals of securities. This decline was partially offset by higher investment income from the insurance brokerage and other services and consulting operations, which increased $30 million or 19% in 2000 compared to 1999. Higher short term interest rates, coupled with improved cash flows also contributed to the increase. Expenses. General expenses decreased $24 million from 1999 due to lower one time charges in 2000. General expenses, excluding these expenses, increased $207 million or 4% over 1999 primarily reflecting investments in new business initiatives, acquisitions and technology. Such costs included the rollout of Aons U.S. retail brokerage computer system platform and related conversions, running of parallel systems and one time training expenses. Benefits to policyholders increased 7% in 2000 and exhibited no unusual claims activity. Interest expense increased 33% from prior year, partly attributable to acquisition financing. Higher short term interest rates and the issuances of $250 million of 6.9% notes in second quarter 1999 and $250 million of 8.65% notes in second quarter 2000 (see note 8) also contributed to the increase. Income Before Income Tax. Income before income tax increased $219 million or 34% over 1999 due to lower one time charges in 2000. Excluding these expenses, income before income tax decreased $12 million or 1%, primarily reflecting lower levels of income on disposals of securities, costs to integrate Aons global network, additional interest expense and the absence of Unicover revenue. During the year, the net foreign exchange impact to pretax income, after the benefit of derivative activity, was negligible. Approximately 47% of Aons consolidated income before income tax is from non U.S. operations. Income Taxes. The effective tax rate was 39% and 38.3% for 2000 and 1999, respectively. The increase in the 2000 effective tax rate was primarily attributable to a shift in business mix. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions and the non deductibility of certain goodwill amortization. Net Income. Net income for 2000 was $474 million or $1.79 per share compared to $352 million or $1.33 per share in 1999. The increase in 2000 net income and the related per share amount is influenced primarily by a lower level of 2000 after tax one time expenses of $50 million ($0.19 per share) compared to 1999 after tax one time expenses of $195 million ($0.74 per share). Partially offsetting the increase in 2000 net income was the adoption of SAB No. 101 which resulted in a one time cumulative non cash charge of $7 million after tax ($0.03 per share). Basic net income per share was $1.81 and $1.35 in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Dividends on the redeemable preferred stock in 2000 and 1999 have been deducted from net income to compute income per share. 31   OPERATING SEGMENTS Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Insurance Brokerage and Other Services, Consulting and Insurance Underwriting (see note 16). Aons operating segments are identified as those that report separate financial information and that are evaluated on a regular basis in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Total revenue for each of the operating segments is presented both by major product and service and by geographic area in note 16. Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. Because Aons culture fosters interdependence among its operating units, the allocation of expenses by product and geography is difficult to delineate. While revenue is tracked and evaluated separately by management, expenses are allocated to products and services within each of the operating segments. In addition to revenue, Aon also measures a segments financial performance using its income before income tax. Operating segment revenue includes investment income related to operating invested assets of that segment. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective operating segments. Aons Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting businesses invest fiduciary funds and operating funds in shorter term obligations. Income derived from these investments, as well as the impact of related derivatives, is included in the revenues of those businesses. In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. Investments underlying interest sensitive capital accumulation insurance liabilities are fixed or floating rate fixed maturity obligations. The capital of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries is invested in common stocks and other securities. For the Insurance Underwriting segment, operating invested assets are equivalent to average net policy liabilities. The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (Restated) (millions) Operating segment revenue: Insurance brokerage and other services $ 4,659 $ 4,367 $ 4,144 Consulting 938 770 656 Insurance underwriting 2,250 2,167 2,106 Total operating segments $ 7,847 $ 7,304 $ 6,906 Income before income tax: Insurance brokerage and other services $ 524 $ 690 $ 493 Consulting 126 106 (42 ) Insurance underwriting 150 300 290 Total income before income tax operating segments $ 800 $ 1,096 $ 741 Insurance Brokerage and Other Services Aon is the second largest global insurance broker; the largest reinsurance broker and manager of captive insurance companies worldwide; the largest multiline claims services provider in the U.S; and the largest wholesaler broker and underwriting manager in the U.S. Approximately 59% of Aons total operating segment revenues are generated from this segment. Revenues are generated primarily through fees paid by clients; commissions and fees paid by insurance 32 and reinsurance companies; certain other carrier compensation; and interest income on funds held primarily in a fiduciary capacity. As the broker or intermediary, Aon does not accept insurance risk. Revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of the timing of clients policy renewals, the net effect of new and lost business, volume based commissions and overrides and the realization of income on investments. Generally, expenses tend to be more uniform throughout the year, however, in 2001, expenses were impacted by the business transformation plan and the events of September 11. The highly specialized product development, consulting and administrative risk management needs of professional groups, service businesses, governments, healthcare providers and commercial organizations are addressed in this segment. Affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines are provided for individuals, associations and businesses. Certain operating subsidiaries provide marketing and brokerage services to both the primary insurance and reinsurance sectors. Revenues generated by the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment are affected by premium rate levels in the property and casualty insurance markets and available insurance capacity because compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds. Insurance Brokerage and Other Services Results for 2001 Compared to 2000 Revenue. Total 2001 Insurance Brokerage and Other Services revenue was $4.7 billion, up 7%, on a reported basis. Organic growth, including the impact of hardening premium rates, as well as acquisitions, accounted for the majority of this revenue growth. Revenue growth was constrained by unfavorable results in parts of the U.S. retail brokerage operations and lower investment income due to declining interest rates. Insurance Brokerage and Other Services operating revenue, on an organic basis, grew approximately 8% in a very competitive environment. Fees of $24 million were collected for managing the capital raising for Endurance. Investment income decreased $30 million in 2001 as declines in short term interest rates were experienced. Continuing the trend from last year, the impact of insurance premium rate increases benefited revenues in 2001. After September 11, insurance markets that were already experiencing rising premium rates in many sectors were impacted further by restrictions on the availability of some coverages and the financial strength of certain insurance companies. The property and casualty insurance market is very competitive. As premium rates rise, clients often retain more risk. This may limit revenue growth, thus affecting the future earnings of Aons brokerage operations. 33 Insurance Brokerage and Other Services revenue by geographic region and pretax income follows: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (Restated) (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,425 $ 2,277 $ 2,146 United Kingdom 918 889 830 Continent of Europe 733 654 680 Rest of World 583 547 488 Total revenue $ 4,659 $ 4,367 $ 4,144 Income before income tax(1) $ 524 $ 690 $ 493 (1)Includes one time expenses of $187 million, $76 million and $191 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, as well as an unusual charge related to the World Trade Center of $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. U.S. revenue of $2.4 billion rose 6% in 2001 on the strength of organic growth, the impact of premium rate increases, and growth in claims services, wholesale brokerage and underwriting management. Partially offsetting this growth was slower new business growth in parts of the retail brokerage business and below normal account retention, due in part from delays in the implementation of the business transformation plan and the impact of the World Trade Center attacks. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues of $1.7 billion increased 7% from 2000 reflecting organic growth and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions, offset partially by unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Rest of World revenue increased $36 million or 7% in 2001 primarily reflecting organic growth resulting from new business and good renewal rates. Income Before Income Tax. Pretax income in 2001 was $524 million, a $166 million decline from 2000. Pretax margins were 11.2% for 2001 versus 15.8% for 2000. The decline was due, in part, to higher ($111 million) business transformation expenses in 2001 as well as the inclusion of $23 million of World Trade Center costs. Pretax income excluding these one time items declined 4% from 2000 to $734 million. Pretax margins were 15.8% for 2001 versus 17.5% last year. The margin decline was principally driven by slower new business growth in parts of the U.S. retail brokerage operations, with only minimal offset from the sale of a small non strategic book of business. In addition, higher costs in certain parts of the U.S. retail business, due partly to delays in implementing the business transformation plan (including expenses to run parallel processes longer than expected, as well as higher compensation and transition costs), also contributed to the pretax margin decline. These factors reduced business transformation savings. Significant growth in our claims services business, which has lower margins, also impacted the year to year comparison. Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. The operations of this segment provide a full range of human capital management services. These services are delivered predominantly to corporate clientele utilizing five major practices: employee benefits, compensation, management consulting, outsourcing and communications. This segment generates 12% of Aons total operating segment revenues. The acquisitions of ASA in 2000 and ASI in 2001 expanded the Companys abilities, especially outsourcing services. The employee benefits practice constructs and implements benefit packages as well as conducts proprietary research on employee commitment and loyalty. The compensation practice focuses on 34 designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option and other pay structures. Management consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development. The outsourcing practice offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration and other employment services. Communication consultants advise companies on initiatives that support their corporate vision. Revenues in the Consulting segment are affected by changes in clients industries, including government regulation, as well as new products and services, the state of the economic cycle, broad trends in employee demographics and the management of large organizations. Consulting Results for 2001 Compared to 2000 Revenue. Revenues of $938 million in 2001 represent a 22% increase over 2000. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, the growth rate was 24%. On a global basis, the improvement in revenue was influenced by strong growth in the U.S. employee benefits business and by acquisition activity, especially ASA and ASI. Revenue grew 7% on an organic basis, as client demand for solutions that enhance workforce productivity continued. However, the worsening economy put some pressure on organic revenue growth, especially the hiring slowdown by some clients. Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income follows: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 628 $ 486 $ 405 United Kingdom 157 151 147 Continent of Europe 77 67 44 Rest of World 76 66 60 Total revenue $ 938 $ 770 $ 656 Income (loss) before income tax(1) $ 126 $ 106 $ (42 ) (1)Includes one time expenses of $7 million, $3 million and $122 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. U.S. revenue of $628 million grew 29% from 2000. The improvement reflects acquisitions and strong fundamental operating performance, particularly in the employee benefits practice. U.K. revenue rose slightly when compared with 2000. Good growth was mostly offset by the impact of the sale of a financial planning consulting business last year, along with unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Both the Continent of Europe and Rest of World revenues rose $10 million from 2000 on organic growth. Income Before Income Tax. Pretax income in 2001 was $126 million, a $20 million increase over 2000. Pretax margins were 13.4% for 2001 versus 13.8% for 2000. Excluding expenses related to the business transformation plan for both years, pretax income was $133 million, a 22% increase from last year. In 2001, pretax margins in this segment were 14.2%, even with 2000. Pretax margins were constrained following the loss of talented employees in the World Trade Center disaster and the expansion of lower margin outsourcing business. Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment provides supplemental accident and health and life insurance coverage through several distribution networks, most of which are directly owned by Aons subsidiaries, 35 and extended warranty and casualty insurance products. This segment has operations in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific and generates approximately 29% of Aons total operating segment revenues. In April 2001, Aon announced a plan to spin off its current insurance underwriting businesses to Aons common stockholders (see note 2). See "Recent Developments" for an update on the planned divestiture. In the accident and health and life operations, Aon provides an array of accident, sickness, short term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations, and are thereby not subject to escalating medical costs. A sales force of approximately 7,000 exclusive career agents call on clients to initiate or renew coverage. Also, Aon has developed relationships with select brokers and consultants to reach specific niche markets. In addition to the traditional business, product distribution has been expanded to include direct response programs, affinity groups and worksite marketing, creating access to new markets and potential new policyholders. Subsidiaries in North America, Latin America, Asia/Pacific and Europe provide warranties on automobiles and a variety of consumer goods, including electronics and appliances. In addition, Aon provides non structural home warranties and other warranty products, such as credit card enhancements and affinity warranty programs. Aon has plans for a new initiative to actively write commercial property and casualty policies. Revenues earned from the administration of certain warranty services on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and appliances are reflected in the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment based on how the business is reviewed by management, but will be reflected as revenue in Combined Specialty after the planned divestiture. In 2001, the underwriting businesses invested $227 million to obtain an ownership interest in Endurance, which will offer property and casualty insurance and reinsurance on a worldwide basis. This investment will provide much needed underwriting capacity to commercial firms and insurance and reinsurance customers and will benefit from growth expected in these areas. Revenue. Revenues of $2.3 billion in 2001 represented an increase of 4% over 2000. Excluding the impact of exchange rates, revenues rose 6%. Improvement over last year was driven by the development of new product initiatives and a higher volume of business in accident and health products, which continued to expand distribution through worksite marketing programs. Organic revenue growth was 6% in 2001. Insurance underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income follows: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (Restated) (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 1,615 $ 1,545 $ 1,457 United Kingdom 302 308 349 Continent of Europe 125 111 115 Rest of World 208 203 185 Total revenue $ 2,250 $ 2,167 $ 2,106 Income before income tax(1) $ 150 $ 300 $ 290 (1)Includes expenses related to the business transformation of $24 million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively as well as an unusual charge related to the World Trade Center of $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. U.S. revenue increased $70 million in 2001 to $1.6 billion. Higher revenues reflect new product initiatives and acquisitions, and more than compensated for the decline in electronic warranty product 36 revenue and declines in investment income. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue increased 2% to $427 million. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates and the slowdown of business in the warranty area offset organic growth in the U.K. and Continent of Europe. Rest of World revenue was up 2% to $208 million. Income Before Income Tax. Pretax income fell $150 million from 2000 to $150 million in 2001. Pretax margins were 6.7% for 2001 versus 13.8% in 2000. Excluding charges related to the World Trade Center of $135 million and expenses related to the business transformation for both years, pretax income of $309 million increased 2% from 2000. Pretax margins fell from 14.0% in 2000 to 13.7% in 2001. New underwriting initiatives drove premium growth but also resulted in increased benefits to policyholders. In addition, an unusual increase in warranty claims occurred during early 2001 related to an isolated program that did not affect subsequent periods. Corporate and Other The components of Corporate and Other revenue and expenses follow: Years ended December 31 2001 2000 1999 (millions) Corporate and other revenue: Change in valuation of private limited partnership investments $ (94 ) $ 73 $ 60 Income from marketable equity securities and other investments 7 9 26 Corporate and other revenue before income (loss) on disposals and related expenses (87 ) 82 86 Income (loss) on disposals and related expenses (84 ) (11 ) 78 Corporate and other revenue $ (171 ) $ 71 $ 164 Expenses: General expenses $ 75 $ 59 $ 63 Interest expense 127 140 105 Amortization of goodwill 118 114 102 Loss before income tax $ (491 ) $ (242 ) $ (106 ) Corporate and Other segment revenue consists primarily of investment income and losses from private limited partnership investments and income or loss on disposals. Also included are other than temporary impairment writedowns of all securities, including those pertaining to assets supporting the operating segments. Private equities are principally carried at cost and usually do not pay a dividend. Limited partnerships are accounted for on the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying partnership investments flow through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Because the limited partnership investments include exchange traded securities, Corporate and Other segment revenue fluctuates with the market values of underlying publicly traded equity investments. Limited partnership interests consist of investments plus commitments to invest. Limited partnership investments have historically provided higher returns over a longer time horizon than broad market common stocks. However, in the short run, the returns are inherently more variable. On December 31, 2001, Aon securitized $450 million of its limited partnership investments plus associated limited partnership commitments, which represented the majority of its limited partnership interests. Aon received a combination of cash and securities in connection with the securitization. This transaction is expected to lessen the variability of revenue reported in this segment in future years. The limited partnership investments were previously included in Aons consolidated statements of financial position. The cash 37 and securities received from the securitization are now included in Aons consolidated statements of financial position. The fixed maturity portfolio had a $58 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2001, including $8 million related to deferred amortizable derivative losses, and is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and credit risk. The equity portfolio is comprised of non redeemable preferred stocks and private and publicly traded common stocks. The non redeemable preferred stock portfolio had a $24 million gross unrealized loss and is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk and illiquidity risk. The common stock portfolio had a $25 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2001 and is subject to illiquidity risk, concentration risk, and operating performance risk relative to private equities and market risk relative to publicly traded stocks. Aons portfolios are highly diversified but remain exposed to market, equity and credit risk. The following table contains an analysis of Aons investment positions with unrealized losses segmented by quality and period of continuous unrealized loss (excluding deferred amortizable derivative losses of $8 million) as of December 31, 2001: 38  Investment Positions with Unrealized Losses Segmented by Quality and period of Continuous Unrealized Loss* Investment Grade Non Investment Grade Not Rated ($ in millions) 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt;12 Months Total 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt;12 Months Total 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt;12 Months Total Grand Total FIXED MATURITIES # of positions 87 7 68 162 11 5 18 34 2 2 198 Fair Value $ 447 $ 23 $ 349 $ 819 $ 30 $ 6 $ 47 $ 83 $ 5 $ $ $ 5 $ 907 Cost or Amortized Cost 455 23 379 857 33 7 55 95 5 5 957 Unrealized Loss (8 ) (30 ) (38 ) (3 ) (1 ) (8 ) (12 ) (50 ) EQUITIES; PREFERRED # of positions 4 33 37 3 3 40 Fair Value $ 12 $ $ 222 $ 234 $ $ $ 13 $ 13 $ $ $ $ $ 247 Cost 13 242 255 16 16 271 Unrealized Loss (1 ) (20 ) (21 ) (3 ) (3 ) (24 ) EQUITIES; COMMON # of positions 1 4 5 7 2 9 14 Fair Value $ 10 $ $ 9 $ 19 $ $ $ $ $ 47 $ $ 1 $ 48 $ 67 Cost 19 17 36 54 2 56 92 Unrealized Loss (9 ) (8 ) (17 ) (7 ) (1 ) (8 ) (25 ) OTHER # of positions Fair Value $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Cost Unrealized Loss TOTAL # of positions 92 7 105 204 11 5 21 37 9 2 11 252 Fair Value $ 469 $ 23 $ 580 $ 1,072 $ 30 $ 6 $ 60 $ 96 $ 52 $ $ 1 $ 53 $ 1,221 Cost or Amortized Cost 487 23 638 1,148 33 7 71 111 59 2 61 1,320 Unrealized Loss (18 ) (58 ) (76 ) (3 ) (1 ) (11 ) (15 ) (7 ) (1 ) (8 ) (99 ) % of Total Unrealized Loss 18 % 0 % 59 % 77 % 3 % 1 % 11 % 15 % 7 % 0 % 1 % 8 % 100 % *For categorization purposes, we consider any rating of Baa or higher by Moodys, or equivalent rating agency, to be investment grade. For common equities, we view the most senior long term debt of the issuer, if any, as the basis for establishing investment grade for the purpose of analysis in this table. At December 31, 2001, Aons diversified fixed maturity portfolio had 198 positions and $50 million of total gross unrealized losses, excluding deferred amortizable derivative losses. No single position had an unrealized loss greater than $2 million. Aons total fixed maturity portfolio is 94% investment grade based on market value. Fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss are 90% investment grade and have a weighted average rating of "A" based on amortized cost. At December 31, 2001, Aons equity portfolio, including non redeemable preferred stocks, had 54 positions and $49 million of total gross unrealized losses. No single position had an unrealized loss greater than $3 million except one insurance industry investment with an unrealized loss of $9 million at December 31, 2001 that as late as the third quarter 2001 was trading at a gain to its cost basis. Aons non publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio had a carrying value of $152 million at December 31, 2001, including $115 million in notes received from PEPS I on December 31, 2001 related to the securitization of limited partnerships. Valuations of these securities primarily reflect the fundamental analysis of the issuer and current market price of comparable securities. Management periodically reviews securities with material unrealized losses and tests for other than temporary impairments. Management analyzes various risk factors and determines if any specific asset impairments exist. Once a determination has been made that a specific asset impairment exists, a realized loss is incurred and the cost basis of the impaired asset is adjusted to its fair value. Management reviews invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. Those assets are separated into two categories: (1) assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events; and (2) assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events. Managements analysis of investments with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events are segmented among four categories: fixed maturity investments; preferred stocks; publicly traded common stocks; and private common stocks and other invested assets. 39 Fixed Maturity Investments Creditworthiness of corporate obligors is reviewed at least quarterly. Creditworthiness factors reviewed include: nationally recognized credit rating agency rating changes; and, changes in fundamental financial performance of the underlying entity. Additionally, for asset backed securities, cash flow trends and underlying levels of collateral are monitored. Management monitors for other than temporary impairment all bonds and asset backed securities that have exhibited a decline in financial performance. Preferred Stocks Similar to fixed maturity investments, issuer creditworthiness is reviewed at least quarterly. Creditworthiness factors reviewed include: nationally recognized credit rating agency rating changes; and changes in financial performance of the underlying issuer. Management monitors for other than temporary impairment all preferred stock investments that have exhibited a decline in financial performance. Publicly Traded Common Stocks Each common stock investment is reviewed quarterly to determine if it has incurred a decline in value deemed other than temporary. Criteria include a review of issuer financial trends, and market expectations based on third party forward looking analytical reports, when available. Private Common Stocks and Other Invested Assets Private issue valuations include: recent transaction valuations between the issuer and a third party; financial performance reviews; and, financial trend comparisons with publicly traded companies in the same or similar industries. These assets are reviewed quarterly. For fixed maturity investments, common and preferred stock investments with continuous material unrealized losses due to issuer specific events, an other than temporary impairment loss is recognized based upon all relevant facts and circumstances for each investment, as appropriate, in accordance with SAB 59, FASB Statement No. 115 and related guidance. Invested assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events include those adversely impacted by: increasing U.S. Treasury or local sovereign interest rates; corporate and asset backed credit spread widening; common stock price volatility due to conditions in the overall market or a particular industry; and illiquid market conditions. For fixed maturity investments with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events where there exists a reasonable market recovery expectation and where management has no positive current intent on selling and Aon has the intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or a market recovery is realized, the decline in value below cost is not assumed to be other than temporary. Management believes that the intent and ability to hold a fixed maturity investment with a continuous material unrealized loss due to market conditions or industry related events for a period of time sufficient to allow a market recovery or to maturity is a decisive factor when considering an impairment loss. In the event that Aons intent or ability to hold a fixed maturity investment with a continuous material unrealized loss for a period of time sufficient to allow a market recovery or to maturity were to change, an evaluation for other than temporary impairment is performed. An other than temporary impairment loss will be recognized based upon all relevant facts and circumstances for each investment, as appropriate, in accordance with SAB 59, FASB Statement No. 115 and related guidance. Aon continues to monitor these securities on a quarterly basis to ensure that unrealized losses do not become the result of issuer specific events. For preferred and common stock investments with continuous material unrealized losses for two consecutive quarters due to market conditions or industry related events, an evaluation for other than temporary impairment is performed. An other than temporary impairment loss is recognized based upon all relevant facts and circumstances for each investment, as appropriate. Aon continues to monitor these securities on a quarterly basis to ensure that unrealized losses are not the result of issuer specific events. The risks inherent in the assessment methodology include the risk that market factors may differ from Aons expectations; Aon may decide to subsequently sell a security for unforeseen liquidity needs; or the credit assessment or equity characteristics may change from our original assessment. Revenue. Corporate and Other revenue was a negative $171 million versus positive $71 million last year. The falloff in revenue primarily reflects reduced valuations of private limited partnership investments. While positive returns were generated from the limited partnership portfolios through 2000, the investments were negatively impacted by 40 unfavorable market conditions in 2001. The comparison is also affected by $57 million of impairment writedowns of certain fixed maturity and equity investments, mainly in the first and fourth quarters of 2001. Loss Before Income Tax. Corporate and Other expenses were $320 million, an increase of $7 million from the comparable period in 2000. Interest expense declined $13 million compared to prior year, reflecting lower interest rates as well as lower debt levels. General expenses rose $16 million over 2000, in part from the duplicate occupancy costs involving major moves to new office space. General expenses in 2000 benefited from the gain on sale of a non core business in the U.K. Goodwill amortization increased as a result of new acquisitions made prior to July 1, 2001. Beginning in 2002, goodwill will no longer be amortized but will instead be tested annually for impairment (see note 1). The revenue and expense comparisons discussed above contributed to the overall Corporate and Other pretax loss of $491 million in 2001 versus a loss of $242 million in 2000. 41  Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations are composed of certain insurance underwriting subsidiaries acquired with Alexander and Alexander Services, Inc. (A&A) that are currently in run off and the indemnification by A&A of certain liabilities relating to subsidiaries sold by A&A prior to its acquisition by Aon. Management believes that, based on current estimates, these discontinued operations are adequately reserved. The liability is included as a component of other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position. In January 2002, Aon settled certain of these liabilities. The settlement had no material effect on the consolidated financial statements.  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Aons routine liquidity needs are primarily for servicing its debt and for the payment of dividends on stock issued and the capital securities. Dividends from Aons subsidiaries are the primary source for meeting these requirements. After meeting its routine dividend and debt servicing requirements, Aon used a portion of the remaining subsidiary dividends received throughout the year to invest in acquisitions to expand its operating segment businesses. There are certain regulatory restrictions relating to dividend capacity of the insurance subsidiaries that are discussed in note 11. Insurance subsidiaries statutory capital and surplus at year end 2001 exceeded the risk based capital target set by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners by a satisfactory level. Aons operating subsidiaries anticipate that there will be adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. The businesses of Aons operating subsidiaries continue to provide substantial positive cash flow. Brokerage cash flow has been used primarily for business reinvestment, acquisition financing and payments of business transformation, other special charge and purchase accounting liabilities, as well as to reduce debt. Aon anticipates continuation of its subsidiaries positive cash flow and the ability of the parent company to access adequate short term lines of credit. In 2001, the Company received advances on its insurance claims from the World Trade Center of approximately $30 million. See "Recent Developments" for an update on liquidity. Operating Cash Flows. Cash flows from operating activities represent the net income earned by Aon in the reported periods adjusted for non cash charges, as well as changes in assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for 2001 were $559 million, a $180 million decrease from 2000. Gross benefits, before reinsurance recoveries, paid due to the World Trade Center tragedy, accounted for $151 million of the shortfall. The use of cash for income taxes is due to the inability to currently deduct certain expenses incurred during the year, resulting in more taxes paid in 2001 than in the prior year. The positive non cash effect of lower valuations on Aons limited partnership portfolios, coupled with impairments of investments and net losses on disposals, was partially offset by lower net income. Insurance operation assets and liabilities reflect a use of cash in 2001, partially as a result of settlements of liabilities on cancelled contracts. Investing Cash Flows. Investing activities used cash of $616 million, an increase of $479 million over last year. The net sale of investments provided cash of $405 million during 2001. On December 31, 2001, Aon securitized most of its limited partnership portfolio via a sale to Private Equity Partnership Structures I, LLC (PEPS I). In return, Aon received securities of PEPS I and $171 million in proceeds from an outside investor. Net purchase of short term investments was $633 million. Cash used for acquisition activity during 2001 was $107 million, reflecting both brokerage and consulting acquisitions, and was slightly higher than last year. Expenditures for property and equipment increased $102 million over 2000. Higher domestic purchases, plus lower proceeds on the sale of assets, drove the increase. Financing Cash Flows. Cash of $620 million was used during 2001 for financing activities, which was $307 million more than was utilized in 2000. The higher usage of cash compared to last year is primarily due to repayments of long term borrowings in 2001, while in 2000, $250 million of long term 42 debt was issued. In 2001, more cash was received from stock option exercise proceeds than was expended to purchase treasury stock. In 2000, treasury stock purchases exceeded stock option exercise proceeds. Cash was used to pay dividends of $238 million on common stock and $3 million on redeemable preferred stock during 2001. Various regulatory requirements applied to Aons underwriting and overseas operations limit availability of operating cash flows for general corporate purposes. Financial Condition. Total assets increased $79 million to $22.3 billion since year end 2000. Invested assets at December 31, 2001 increased $127 million from last year, primarily resulting from the growth in short term investments. More cash was invested in short term investments at year end 2001 than at December 31, 2000, which is a major factor in the reduced cash balance this year. Cash was lower in 2001 following debt paydowns of $156 million. Aons consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2001 contains a general expense liability of $61 million related to purchase restructuring liabilities (see note 4) and $79 million related to the business transformation plan (see note 5). Aon anticipates that most of the outstanding termination benefits will be paid over the next few years. The remaining items primarily reflect lease obligations and will run off over a period up to 10 years. Aon does not anticipate that payments for termination benefits and lease obligations will have a material impact on cash flows in subsequent periods. Restructuring liabilities related to recent acquisitions and prior year special charges have been reduced by payments as planned. Capital Resources Short term Borrowings and Notes Payable. At December 31, 2001, Aon had $1.2 billion of back up lines of credit available to support its $254 million outstanding commercial paper at December 31, 2001. In February 2002, Aon renegotiated its back up lines of credit. In anticipation of the impending divestiture of its insurance underwriting subsidiaries, Aons line of credit was reduced to $875 million. This new agreement will expire in 2005. In order to achieve tax efficient financing, Aon renegotiated, in September 2001, a new committed revolving bank credit facility under which certain European subsidiaries can borrow up to EUR 500 million. As of December 31, 2001, Aon had borrowed EUR 269 million ($239 million) under this facility, of which $152 million is classified as short term borrowings and $87 million is classified as notes payable in the consolidated statements of financial position. Notes payable decreased by $104 million when compared to year end 2000. The principal reason for the decline was the paydown of the Euro credit facility. Funds received from the issuance of $150 million of notes with a floating interest rate of LIBOR +1% due January 2003, and $250 million of 6.2% notes due January 2007 (see note 8) were used to pay down U.S. commercial paper. Contractual maturities of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) by due date are disclosed in note 8. Aon borrows funds from and lends funds to its various subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2001, Aon had obligations to its subsidiaries of approximately $581 million. These obligations have competitive interest rates. Stockholders Equity. At December 31, 2001, common stockholders equity per share decreased to $12.82 from $13.02 in 2000. Stockholders equity increased by $77 million. The principal factors influencing the growth of equity were net income of $147 million and net unrealized investment gains of $30 million. Additionally, common stock and paid in additional capital increased $977 million of which $783 million related to shares which were issued in conjunction with the acquisition of two entities controlled by Aons Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. A corresponding offset amount is reflected as treasury stock, as the Company received 22.4 million shares of stock in the transaction (see note 4). In addition, the ASI and First Extended acquisitions were financed through the issuance of $197 million of common stock. Offsetting this increase were dividends to stockholders of $241 million 43 and net foreign exchange losses of $58 million. Unrealized investment and foreign exchange fluctuations from period to period are largely based on market conditions. Aon believes it is not economical to hedge these short term noncash fluctuations. Also, the additional minimum pension liability adjustment increased $124 million. During 2001, certain of Aons defined benefit plans, particularly in the United Kingdom, suffered significant valuation losses in the assets backing the related pension obligation. These losses were primarily a result of the decline in the international equity markets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. require a company to maintain, at a minimum, a liability on its balance sheet equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the market value of the assets supporting these obligations. At year end 2001, this minimum pension liability amounted to $204 million, up from $82 million at the end of 2000. The after tax effect on accumulated other comprehensive loss was $168 million at December 31, 2001. The related pension plan assets are maintained in separate trust accounts and are not part of Aons consolidated financial statements. Related Party Transactions. During 2001, Aon completed a transaction with Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman and CEO, and his family members. The result of the transaction is that the Ryan family and their trusts now have direct ownership of their Aon shares versus indirect ownership through corporations owned by the Ryan family. The transaction in no way changes Mr. Ryan and his familys 12% beneficial ownership of Aons common shares. Aons Board of Directors approved the transaction following receipt of the unanimous recommendation of a Special Committee of the Board comprised solely of outside directors who were advised by legal and financial advisors separately retained by the Special Committee. The recommendation and approval were based upon consideration of contractual terms and other benefits of the transaction to Aon including the receipt of cash, net of expenses, of approximately $5 million, and certain stock transfer restrictions. Special Purpose Entities. Aon utilizes special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities (QSPE), also known as special purpose vehicles, in certain of its operations, following the guidance contained in Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 140 (Statement No. 140) and other relevant accounting guidance. Certain of Aons special purpose vehicles, were formed for the sole purpose of purchasing financing receivables and selling those balances to conduits owned and managed by third party financial institutions. Subject to certain limitations, agreements provide for sales to these conduit vehicles on a continuing basis through December 2002. It is managements intent to renew these conduit facilities, which are used to support Aons financing operations, upon their expiration. Factors that would affect the utilization and availability of the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be adverse bank, regulatory, tax or accounting rule changes. As of December 31, 2001, the maximum commitment by the financial institutions contained in these agreements was $2.4 billion. Under the agreements, the receivables are sold to the conduits. Consequently, credit risks on the receivables are borne by the conduits subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves provided by Aons subsidiaries and guaranteed by Aon. Aons maximum credit risk under recourse provisions of these agreements was approximately $225 million at December 31, 2001. These special purpose vehicles are not included in Aons consolidated financial statements. On December 31, 2001, Aon sold the vast majority of its limited partnership (LP) portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company which is owned by one of Aons subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which is not controlled by Aon, established for victims of the September 11 attacks (51%). Approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities were sold by PEPS I to unaffiliated third parties. PEPS I then paid the Companys insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and 44 issued to them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. The fixed maturity securities Aon subsidiaries received from PEPS I are rated as investment grade by Standard & Poors Ratings Services. As part of this transaction the insurance companies are required to purchase from PEPS I additional fixed maturity securities in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. As of December 31, 2001, these unfunded commitments amounted to $136 million. If the insurance companies fail to purchase additional fixed maturity securities as commitments are drawn down, Aon has guaranteed their purchase. While this transaction should significantly reduce the reported earnings volatility associated with these limited partnership investments, it will not significantly limit Aons ability to recoup past losses or realize potential gains. Subsequent to the closing of the securitization, one of the insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. The assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I are not included in Aons consolidated financial statements. As part of CICAs strategy to issue stable value investments contracts to institutional investors, Combined Global Funding, LLC (Combined Global), a Cayman Islands based special purpose entity, was formed solely to issue notes to investors under a European Medium Term Note (EMTN) Program. The proceeds of the notes are used to purchase Funding Agreement policies issued by CICA. The contract terms of the Funding Agreement mirror the terms of the trust medium term notes. At the stated maturity of the Funding Agreement, CICA is required to settle with Combined Global, which then redeems the notes issued to investors. Neither CICA nor its affiliates own any shares of Combined Global. The authorized program size is $1 billion; outstanding Funding Agreements at December 31, 2001 were $79 million and are included in Aons consolidated statements of financial position in other policyholder funds.  INVESTMENT OPERATIONS Aon invests in broad asset categories related to its diversified operations. Investments are managed with the objective of maximizing earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks and regulatory requirements. Aon maintains well capitalized operating companies. The financial strength of these companies permits a diversified investment portfolio including invested cash, fixed income obligations, public and private equities and limited partnerships. Invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income, are allocated to the Corporate and Other segment. These insurance assets, which are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and limited partnerships, represent a more aggressive investment strategy that provides an opportunity for greater returns with a longer term investment horizon. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies, are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies and are unavailable for other uses such as debt reduction or share repurchases without consideration of regulatory requirements (see note 11). Many of the limited partnerships in which Aon invests have significant holdings in publicly traded equities. Changes in market value of these equities flow through the valuation of the limited partnerships. Aons ownership share of this partnership valuation is included in Aons reported Corporate and Other segment revenue. By comparison, changes in the market value of directly held, publicly traded equities are recorded directly in stockholders equity. As a consequence of this accounting, the Corporate and Other segment exhibits greater variability in investment income than is the case of investments supporting the operating segments. On December 31, 2001, Aon securitized $450 million of limited partnership investments and associated limited partnership commitments, which represent most of the limited partnership investments held by Aon, via a sale to PEPS I. The securitization gives Aons underwriting subsidiaries greater liquidity and is expected to lessen the revenue variability that has been experienced in the past in the Corporate and Other segment. 45 With a carrying value of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2001, Aons total fixed maturity portfolio is invested primarily in investment grade holdings (94%) and has a fair value which is 99% of amortized cost. Aons general investment philosophy is to hold fixed rate assets for long term investment. Thus, it does not have a trading portfolio. Aon has determined that its portfolio of bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stocks is available to be sold in response to changes in market interest rates, relative value of asset sectors and individual securities prepayment and credit risks and Aons need for liquidity. In 1999, Aon addressed and implemented system modifications necessary for full conversion to the euro effective January 1, 2002. The costs related to the euro conversion did not have a material impact on Aons European operations in 2001 or 2000. Recent Developments Planned Divestiture of Underwriting Business As noted above, Aons Board of Directors approved, in principle, a plan to spin off its insurance underwriting businesses to Aons common stockholders. In March 2002, Combined Specialty filed its Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In April 2002, Aon received a favorable private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Aon had previously stated its intention to raise common equity in connection with the proposed spin off, subject to market conditions, regulatory review, a favorable IRS ruling and final board approval. However, current market conditions are not conducive to raising capital. On August 7, 2002, Aon announced that it is investigating alternative options for Combined Specialty, including a sale of all or part of Combined Specialty, and or a spin off of part of Combined Specialty. Business Transformation Plan In fourth quarter 2000, Aon began a comprehensive business transformation plan designed to enhance client service, improve productivity through process redesign and accelerate revenue growth. This plan began in 2000 and continues into 2002. Outside of U.S. retail brokerage, the plan has been substantially implemented and has delivered the expected benefits, including improved revenue growth and enhanced productivity. In second quarter 2002, $6 million of business transformation expenses previously recorded were reversed due to the substantial completion of the plan in U.S. retail brokerage. This credit is primarily related to a decision made during the second quarter that certain employees whose employment had been targeted for termination would remain employed. World Trade Center On September 11, 2002, CICAs action with respect to the BTA policy was dismissed by the Court for the lack of subject matter jurisdiction. CICA is seeking an expedited appeal. Litigation Matters One of Aons insurance subsidiaries is a defendant in several lawsuits in Mississippi. The lawsuits generally allege misconduct by the subsidiary in the solicitation and sale of insurance policies. Attorneys representing the plaintiffs in these lawsuits have advised the subsidiary that approximately 2,700 other current or former policyholders may file similar claims. Each lawsuit includes, and each threatened claim could include, a request for punitive damages. Aons insurance subsidiary has been litigating the pending suits and investigating the claims. In the second quarter 2002, Aon negotiated a compromise of several of the lawsuits and approximately 2,000 of the claims. Thus far in the third quarter of 2002, the settlement of approximately 1,000 of these claims has been concluded. The remainder of the settlements are still in the process of being documented and finalized. Of the remaining settlements 46 already reached or concluded there will still be at least several hundred threatened claims outstanding. Each of the remaining lawsuits and any threatened claims are being investigated and vigorously defended. On August 30, 2002, two of the three carriers referred to in note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut against the Aon brokerage subsidiary, which is a defendant in the Allianz action. The two carriers are currently involved in an arbitration proceeding with Allianz, related to the original litigation, in which Allianz seeks the recission of the reinsurance placements. These carriers also seek to recover from the Aon brokerage subsidiary any damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, suffered by such carriers as a result of an adverse arbitration award.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Aon is subject to various market risk exposures including foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. The following disclosures reflect estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Actual results may differ. Aon is subject to foreign exchange rate risk associated with translating financial statements of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Additionally, certain of Aons foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Aons primary exposures are associated with the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the euro. Aon uses various derivative financial instruments (see note 14) to protect against adverse transaction and translation effects of exchange rate fluctuations. The potential decrease to Aons consolidated stockholders equity at December 31, 2001, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted year end foreign currency exchange rates, amounts to $163 million and $136 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The impact to 2001 and 2000 pretax income in the event of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the respective quoted year end exchange rates would not be material after consideration of derivative positions. The nature of the income of Aons businesses is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. Aon hedges its net exposure to short term interest rates with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $10 million and $11 million to 2001 and 2000 pretax income, respectively. The valuation of Aons fixed maturity portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2001 and 2000 by approximately $89 million and $103 million, respectively. Aon has long term notes payable and capital securities outstanding with a fair value of $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Such fair value was greater than the carrying value by $38 million and less than the carrying value by $10 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 6% and 10% at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The valuation of Aons marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $38 million at December 31, 2001 compared to $49 million at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. The selection of the ranges of values chosen to represent changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity market prices should not be construed as Aons prediction of future market events, but rather an illustration of the impact of such events. The range of changes chosen reflects Aons view of changes, that are reasonably possible over a one year period. 47 The translated value of revenue and expense from Aons international brokerage and underwriting operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. However, the net impact of these fluctuations on Aons net income or cash flows has not been material. 48  
 
