Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview This Managements Discussion and Analysis is divided into seven sections. In the first section, "Key Recent Events," we describe five items that significantly affected our results of operations and our financial condition during the periods covered by the financial statements included in this report. In the second section, "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates," we discuss certain accounting judgments that are important to understanding our financial statements. With the information from those first two sections providing important background, we then proceed with the sections providing year to year comparisons of our results on a consolidated basis and on a segment basis. These sections are designated by the captions "Review of Consolidated Results" and "Review by Segments," respectively. "Financial Condition and Liquidity," covers several items including disclosures related to the statement of financial position and information on special purpose entities. The "Risks and Outlook" section addresses the issues and factors that can influence future results. The final section, "Recent Developments," covers items that have occurred since February 12, 2003. More specifically, this Managements Discussion and Analysis is organized using the following outline: KEY RECENT EVENTS Business Transformation Plan World Trade Center Tragedy Previously Planned Divestiture of Insurance Underwriting Businesses and Discontinuance of Certain Operations SEC Comment Letter (Division of Corporation Finance) Capital Enhancement Actions CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Pensions Contingencies Policy Liabilities REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General Financial Overview of 2002 Summary Results for 2000 through 2002 Consolidated Results for 2002 Compared to 2001 Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2002 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2001 Consolidated Results for 2001 Compared to 2000 REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Insurance Brokerage and Other Services Consulting Insurance Underwriting Corporate and Other Discontinued Operations FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Financial Condition 11 Capital Resources Special Purpose Entities Investments RISKS AND OUTLOOK Risks Related to Our Business and the Insurance Industry Information Concerning Forward looking Statements RECENT DEVELOPMENTS KEY RECENT EVENTS Business Transformation Plan In fourth quarter 2000, after final approval by its Board of Directors, Aon began a comprehensive business transformation plan designed to: enhance client service improve productivity through process redesign accelerate revenue growth. Most plan costs relate to the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment, principally in the U.S. and the United Kingdom, where most of our offices and employees are located. Status of business transformation plan implementation We have implemented the business transformation plan, which has delivered many, but not all of the expected benefits. In U.S. retail brokerage, the plan entailed extensive process redesign following the rollout of a new policy management and accounting system (completed in 2000), and substantial job redesign based on functional expertise and the creation of four new client service centers. There were delays, revenue disruptions and expense additions in this area. The unexpected delays in implementing some aspects of the plan were due to: challenges in handling higher volumes of information transfers between field operations and the service centers the destruction of our largest and most advanced service center in the World Trade Center. These delays negatively impacted new business production, as our attention was diverted from generating new accounts to completing client conversions and maintaining service to our New York region clients from our offices throughout the U.S. In addition, expenses were higher than expected, due in part to: additional temporary employee expense necessary to complete the account conversions to the service centers increased compensation for certain brokerage employees the hiring of employees with specialized skills. In addition, in the aftermath of the World Trade Center tragedy, the dynamics of the insurance marketplace have changed, increasing time requirements and expense for handling certain job functions. 12 The table below summarizes our business transformation costs by calendar year and provides a breakdown of pretax expenses. 2002 2001 2000 Plan Total (millions except per share and employee data) Business Transformation Costs Pretax expense (credit) $ (6 ) $ 218 $ 82 $ 294 After tax expense (credit) (4 ) 133 50 179 Dilutive earnings per share loss (credit) (0.01 ) 0.49 0.19 0.67 Pretax Expense (Credit) by Type: Termination Benefits $ (6 ) $ 109 $ 54 $ 157 Approximate No. of employees(1) (200 ) 3,150 750 3,700 Exit Costs, Impairments and Other Expenses 109 28 137 Abandoned real estate or equipment losses 10 2 12 Impairment of fixed assets 10 20 30 Obligations related to automobile dealer partnerships 44 44 Exit of certain joint venture operations 12 12 Litigation matters and discontinuance of A&H business in one state 14 14 Commission receivable write off 5 5 Direct costs to complete transformation and cash settlements 11 4 15 Other costs 3 2 5 Total pretax expense (credit) $ (6 ) $ 218 $ 82 $ 294 (1)The approximate number of employees shown is on a gross basis, based upon notice of termination. Given effect to approximately 900 new hires, the expected ultimate net reduction will be approximately 2,800 in the units affected by the business transformation plan. The $294 million plan total excludes: transition costs primarily relating to parallel system processing and temporary employee expense. These transition costs, primarily in the U.S., amounted to $30 million in 2001 and $10 million in 2002 increased compensation for certain U.S. retail brokerage employees comprised of increased base salaries and one time special incentive compensation the hiring of employees with specialized skills In recording these expenses, we followed the accounting guidance from Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 94 3, Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 100, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 121, and FASB Statement No. 5. In each year that we recorded accruals for either termination benefits or other costs to exit an activity, we met all of the requirements contained in EITF 94 3 and SAB 100 before recording an accrual, although our Board approved the high level plan in the fall of 2000. We incurred these expenses over two years because different Aon units completed detailed plans and satisfied the employee notification requirements in different timeframes. The expenses for our U.S. retail brokerage operation were approximately 19% of the plan total costs. We do not anticipate any additional expenses from the business transformation plan. 13  Termination benefits We incurred expenses totaling $54 million in 2000 and $109 million in 2001 for termination benefits, covering the costs to sever approximately 750 employees in 2000 and 3,150 employees in 2001. Approximately 200 of the notified employees were to have their jobs terminated under a U.S. retail brokerage exit plan; however, the tragic events of September 11th have reduced the total number of employees who will be terminated. As a result, we recorded a $6 million credit in general expenses in 2002. A portion of the overall employment reduction was expected to be accomplished through normal attrition and, therefore, no expense was attributable to those reductions. Therefore, the approximate number of employees to be terminated was 3,700. Giving effect to approximately 900 new hires, the expected ultimate net reduction of employees will be approximately 2,800 in the units affected by the business transformation plan. Almost all of the affected employees had been removed from the payroll as of December 31, 2002. All of the 198 remaining notified, but not yet terminated, employees work outside the U.S.; the exit plans for these employees have later termination dates because employment laws in certain countries require extended periods before we can terminate a notified employee. Our exit plans in these cases were targeted to specific employee groups, and in some cases, specific employees. At or before the expense accrual date, we properly notified these employee groups and gave them adequate information about their severance benefits. The run off of the associated liability will trail the time by which we complete these exit plans because our policy is to pay severance over the eligible period, rather than in a lump sum amount, whenever possible. Costs to exit activities Approximately $27 million in other costs to exit an activity have also been included in the total expense of $294 million. Of that amount, we incurred $6 million in 2000, which included $2 million in abandoned real estate or equipment leases and $4 million of direct costs necessary to complete portions of the business transformation plan and cash settlements necessary to exit contractual obligations. In 2001, we recorded $21 million of expenses, which included $10 million for abandoned leases and $11 million for direct costs necessary to complete portions of the business transformation plan and cash settlements necessary to exit contractual obligations. Other costs As part of our business transformation and other strategic initiatives, we incurred other expenses of $110 million. Of this total, $22 million was recorded in 2000. Impairment of fixed assets accounted for $20 million of the 2000 expense, including $16 million for information systems assets. The net book value of these assets was written off, as these assets no longer had value to Aon. The assets were considered impaired and without value because of one of the following reasons: 1.We removed the system from service. 2.We abandoned system development as a result of the transformation. 3.We outsourced the relevant function for some fixed assets, including certain technology infrastructure equipment. There were $2 million of other costs also recognized in 2000. We recorded $88 million as other expenses in 2001. More specifically, Aon has acted as a servicing agent for a limited partnership affiliated with our automobile dealership clients to provide auto financing to dealerships on a cooperative basis through various financing conduit facilities. We also have a general partnership interest in the limited partnership. Our primary client relationship with automobile dealers is to provide extended warranty products to their customers. 14 In first quarter 2001, we elected to cease servicing new business and run off our existing service obligation, given competition from financing provided by the financing arms of automobile manufacturers. The limited partnership records allowances for uncollectible loan balances. In conjunction with our decision to discontinue new auto financing receivables, the limited partners are not obligated to contribute additional capital beyond what they have already provided for any shortfall in the reserves for their individual book of business. We are required to fund any shortfalls in accordance with our limited recourse to the funding facility, arranged by the servicing agent. The servicing agent estimated an expense of $44 million as our liability for the shortfall when we decided to discontinue new auto loan financing under the facility. We recorded a charge to establish this obligation in accordance with FASB Statement No. 5 in 2001. For the year 2000, the last full year of normal operation, these servicing operations, which were part of our Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment, generated revenue of $42 million and pretax income of $3 million. During 2001, we exited four other joint venture operations as a part of our business transformation process. For the year 2000, the last full year of operation, these joint ventures, which were part of our Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment, generated less than $1 million of revenue and nearly $3 million of pretax losses. The total cost to exit these four joint ventures was $12 million. Additional expenses in 2001 included: $14 million for discontinuing supplemental accident and health insurance business operations in Mississippi. The charge included severance costs and expenses associated reassigning agents and estimated costs for resolving asserted and unasserted claims and suits. a $5 million expense relating to the write down of certain agent receivables in conjunction with restructuring a worksite marketing agent commission pay structure and operations. In 2001, we also incurred additional fixed asset impairments of $10 million (of which $9 million related to information systems assets) and $3 million of other costs. The implementation and effects of the business transformation plan must be viewed in the context of the World Trade Center tragedy. World Trade Center Tragedy The attack on the World Trade Center significantly impacted our employees, our clients and industry, our business transformation plan and our financial results. Employee Impact This terrorist attack destroyed our largest and most advanced U.S. retail brokerage service center. This service center was an important element of the business transformation and had been built and staffed just months before; we had to rebuild this service center in Manhattan while rerouting client work to the remaining three service centers in the U.S. 1,100 of our employees worked in the World Trade Center, including employees from all of our major businesses 175 of our employees died in the World Trade Center attack on September 11, 2001 250 additional employees from around the world either worked in other lower Manhattan offices or were visiting the World Trade Center on September 11th, which demonstrates the significance of this office to our global operations Displaced World Trade Center employees had to be relocated to other New York City metropolitan offices 15 We had to refer regular client servicing to other company offices for varying periods until employees had proper temporary work facilities Client and Industry Impact The September 11th attacks thrust the insurance industry into the most tumultuous period in its recent history Client demand for risk management advice and services has grown dramatically since September 11th Premium rates have accelerated to their highest levels in decades Insurance capacity has been restricted and policy coverage has tightened Workloads for insurance brokers to complete similar tasks have significantly increased Competitive demand for risk management professionals has risen along with compensation requirements. Business Transformation Plan Impact The insurance brokerage industry worldwide has expanded significantly since September 11th with increased client demand for risk management services not anticipated when we first developed the business transformation. This unanticipated expansion delayed our ability to implement some parts of the plan. It also required that we incur additional spending, primarily in the U.S., to take advantage of this industry expansion, which partially explains the offset in savings. Financial Results Impact In 2001, Aon recorded pretax unusual charges of $158 million, net of insurance and reinsurance reimbursements, related to losses sustained as a result of the destruction of the World Trade Center and the death of 175 employees. The financial costs we incurred for this tragedy included $192 million of insurance benefits paid by Aons Combined Insurance Company of America subsidiary (CICA) under life insurance policies issued for the benefit of deceased employees, a cost which is partially offset by anticipated reinsurance reimbursements of $147 million, resulting in a net charge of $45 million. Reinsurers have disputed their liability for about $90 million of reinsurance reimbursements under a Business Travel Accident (BTA) policy issued by CICA to cover U.S. based employees of subsidiaries of Aon; both parties have filed legal actions. We recorded a pretax $90 million allowance for a potentially uncollectible receivable related to this dispute in fourth quarter 2001. In September 2002, the Court dismissed CICAs action with respect to the BTA policy for the lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Prior to year end, CICA was granted an expedited appeal. Other World Trade Center charges also included: $33 million of destroyed depreciable assets at net book value $40 million for salaries and benefits for deceased and injured employees and other costs a $10 million commitment to the Aon Memorial Education fund to support the educational needs of the children of Aon employees who were victims of the September 11th attacks. Offsetting these expenses were estimated reimbursements of $60 million. We reached a settlement with our property insurance carriers in 2002 pertaining to reimbursement for depreciable assets destroyed. This settlement resulted in a pretax credit of $29 million which is 16 reported as an Unusual credit World Trade Center in the consolidated statements of income. Aon continues to present additional claims to insurers for losses related to extra expenses, leasehold interests and business interruption coverage, and we expect additional recoveries and gains when specific claims are settled. Previously Planned Divestiture of Insurance Underwriting Businesses and Discontinuance of Certain Operations As disclosed in April 2001, Aons Board of Directors approved a preliminary plan to spin off its insurance underwriting businesses to Aons common stockholders, creating two independent, publicly traded companies. When we reported our second quarter 2002 results, we announced that we were no longer planning to spin off all of our underwriting operations, but were continuing to consider either selling or partially spinning them off. At that time, we believed we could promptly sell all or part of the underwriting operations at an acceptable price within a reasonable time given unsolicited buying interest in the past. We decided not to pursue this revised plan in October 2002 for these reasons: 1.While we received indications of interest in our underwriting businesses, none reflected an acceptable price due to the unfavorable mergers and acquisitions environment resulting from volatile capital markets. Although proceeds from selling such businesses would have allowed us to pay down short term debt, the sale would have resulted in unacceptable earnings dilution. 2.We determined that spinning off part of our underwriting operations was impractical due to capital requirements and possible rating agency reactions. During 2002, Aon incurred $50 million of pretax expenses related to the planned divestiture of our insurance underwriting businesses, which included costs related to the expanded corporate and underwriting staff added in anticipation of the divestiture. These costs, of which $33 million are reflected in our Insurance Underwriting segment results and $17 million are reflected in our Corporate and Other segment, are recorded primarily in general expenses in the consolidated statements of income, and represent staff buildup and severance costs, corporate overhead and advisory fees and other costs tied to the specialty property and casualty underwriting initiatives. In fourth quarter 2002, Aon announced its plans to sell Sheffield Insurance Corporation, a small property casualty company. In February 2003, we announced that we would be discontinuing our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, as well as our large company group life business in the U.S. Total premiums earned in 2002, related to these lines of businesses, were approximately $100 million. We will pursue a "back to basics" strategy in the accident and health insurance business, where the focus will be on core products and regions with the best returns on investments. SEC Comment Letter (Division of Corporation Finance) In July 2002, we received a comment letter from the SECs Division of Corporation Finance regarding our 2001 Form 10 K and first quarter 2002 Form 10 Q. The SEC sent this letter as part of its publicly announced plan to review periodic reports of large public corporations. Aggregate stockholders equity was not impacted as a result of our resolution of issues with the SEC. 17 The SEC letter asked questions pertaining to three main areas: 1.A $90 million disputed reinsurance recoverable initially recorded in the third quarter 2001 relating to benefits paid to beneficiaries of Aons World Trade Center employees through our CICA subsidiary that underwrote the insurance coverage. Originally, we had recorded an allowance for potential uncollectibility of the reinsurance recoverable in the first quarter 2002 based on a dispute with reinsurers and certain court actions in an unrelated case. The SEC commented on the timing of the establishment of the allowance. To resolve this comment, we agreed to establish the allowance in the fourth quarter 2001 and to reverse the amount originally recorded in first quarter 2002. Consequently, we restated our consolidated financial statements, including relevant schedules and exhibits, for the affected periods and filed them in an amended Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2001 and an amended Form 10 Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2002. 2.The investment portfolio of our subsidiaries. We have always had a policy of reviewing the investment portfolio of our subsidiaries for potential impairments. The SEC staff believed that with respect to equity and certain below investment grade fixed maturity securities that had been trading below cost for an extended period of time, we should recognize other than temporary impairments through our income statement more quickly. We agreed to modify our policy prospectively (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), and we recognized a cumulative adjustment for other than temporary impairment loss of $56 million pretax in second quarter 2002. Approximately $51 million of that cumulative adjustment pertained to years before 2002 and $5 million applied to first quarter 2002. The SEC staff reviewed this matter and did not object to our conclusions regarding the accounting treatment for the other than temporary impairment adjustments recorded by us in second quarter 2002 that had no effect on our stockholders equity, total assets, or total liabilities. 3.The addition or exclusion of certain disclosures and items. The SEC staff requested that Aon add certain disclosures and not report certain items. To respond to this request, we amended our consolidated financial statements and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our 2001 Form 10 K/A and first quarter 2002 Form 10 Q/A. Capital Enhancement Actions During the fourth quarter 2002, Aon raised net proceeds of approximately $519 million through the issuance of 3.5% convertible debt securities and 7.375% debt securities, and approximately $607 million by issuing 36.8 million shares of new common stock. The 3.5% debt securities are convertible into Aon common stock at an initial price of approximately $21.475 per common share under certain circumstances (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). Funds received by these offerings were used to pay down commercial paper, other short term debt, long term debt and to repurchase a portion of our trust preferred capital securities. See Capital Resources, below, for further information. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Aons consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect what we report as our assets and liabilities and what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. 18 In accordance with our policies, we: continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves and policy and contract claim reserves), restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances; the results allow us to make judgments about our carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results we report may differ from these estimates if our assumptions or conditions change. We believe the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect the more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used to prepare these consolidated financial statements. Pensions We account for our defined benefit pension plans in accordance with FASB Statement No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" which requires that amounts recognized in the financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. A substantial portion of Aons pension amounts relate to its defined benefit plans in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. There are several assumptions which impact the actuarial calculation of pension plan obligations and, in turn, net periodic pension expense in accordance with FASB Statement No. 87. These assumptions require various degrees of judgment. The most significant assumptions are (1) the expected return on plan assets and (2) the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on our current and future consolidated results of operations and financial position. We estimate the expected return on plan assets at the annual measurement date for each plan using historical analyses of the returns of specific asset classes weighted by the asset allocation of the plan in question. This estimate involves significant judgment with respect to interpretation of these historical analyses as a predictor of future results. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 87, the difference between actual and expected earnings for the year is deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense over several years depending on the magnitude of the amount along with other deferred gains and losses (see below). A deterioration in worldwide global equity markets in recent years has caused us to revise our expected return on plan assets downward in 2002 and 2001 and compared to prior periods. As of the annual measurement date for each plan, we determine the discount rate to be used to discount plan obligations. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension obligations could be effectively settled. In estimating this rate, we look to rates of return on long term, high quality, fixed income investments that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized ratings agency. Decreases in the discount rate over the past few years have been driven by a decrease in long term interest rates and have had two major impacts on our consolidated financial statements: 1.They contributed, along with decreases in the expected return on plan assets and other assumptions, to increases to our Projected Benefit Obligation (PBO). Increases in the PBO are not immediately recorded as expenses in the current period. FASB Statement No. 87 requires that changes in the PBO (as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience), to be deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense over several years depending on the magnitude of the total deferred gain or loss (see above). For our significant defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the total deferred loss at December 31, 2002 that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements was approximately $1.6 billion. 19 2.They contributed, along with decreases in the expected return on plan assets and other assumptions, to increases to our Accumulated Benefit Obligation (ABO), which represents the measurement of pension obligations relating to services performed by active and terminated, as well as retired employees through the current measurement date. If the ABO exceeds the fair value of plan assets at the measurement date (as measured separately for each plan), GAAP requires that we effectively reverse any prepaid assets previously recognized related to that particular plan and record a pension liability equal to the difference between the ABO and the fair value of plan assets, otherwise referred to as the "minimum pension liability". The adjustment necessary to reverse any prepaid assets previously recognized and establish the minimum pension liability is recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) net of applicable deferred income taxes, rather than to income. For Aons significant defined benefit pension plans, a combination of declines in the fair value of plan assets and an increase in the ABO has necessitated over time an aggregate pretax charge to accumulated other comprehensive loss related to minimum pensions of $1.2 billion, or $720 million after tax, as of December 31, 2002. Contingencies We define as a contingency any material condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved. Under GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for contingencies when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. For instance, we are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies are made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter, or changes in approach, such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. Policy Liabilities Through our insurance underwriting operations, we collect premiums from policyholders and we establish liabilities (reserves) to pay benefits to policyholders. The liability for policy benefits, claims and unearned premiums is one of the largest liabilities included in our statements of financial position. This liability is primarily comprised of estimated future payments to policyholders, policy and contract claims, and unearned and advance premiums, and contract fees. To establish policy liabilities, we rely upon estimates for reported and anticipated claims, our historical experience, other actuarial data and, with respect to accident, health and life liabilities, assumptions on investment yields. Interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality and interest rate assumptions are locked in when we issue new insurance business, we may need to provide for expected losses on a product by reducing previously capitalized acquisition costs established for that product, and or establishing premium deficiency reserves if there are significant changes in our experience or assumptions. While we believe that we have estimated these liabilities effectively, the results we finally report in Aons consolidated financial statements could be affected by trends which do not match historical experience or which differ from our underlying assumptions. Furthermore, when our actual experience differs from our previous estimate, the difference will be reflected in the results we report for the period when we changed our estimate. We always consider trends in actual experience as a significant factor in helping us determine claim reserve levels. 20 REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General When we refer to organic revenue growth in the discussion of operating results, we exclude the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, transfers, investment income, foreign exchange, and other unusual items. Written premiums are the basis for organic revenue growth within the Insurance Underwriting segment, but our reported revenues reflect earned premiums. When we refer to income before income tax, we exclude minority interest related to the 8.205% mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (capital securities) (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). Financial Overview of 2002 Aon achieved good organic revenue growth in 2002, but earnings were below original targets due to several factors. Aon was: finalizing the delayed implementation of the business transformation plan in its U.S. retail brokerage operations recovering from the World Trade Center disaster dealing with the shock to the insurance industry from September 11th, which created significant new demands on employees, as well as new business opportunities incurring costs to spin off our insurance underwriting operations, which we ultimately decided not to do given market conditions and other factors. Although these issues negatively impacted earnings because of the increased expenses, revenues grew more than 10% in each operating segment, showing good demand for our products and services. In addition, we completed our business transformation plan and reported the following: The Consulting segment began a sizeable new outsourcing engagement, which will provide favorable returns over the life of the multi year agreement. Up front investment costs to support the new business are having a negative effect on near term margins The Insurance Underwriting segment earnings were negatively influenced by unusual events The Corporate and Other segment reported a significantly smaller pretax loss than in the previous year. 21  During the year, we strengthened our capital structure, raising $607 million in new common stock and $519 million of new debt, including proceeds of $296 million for convertible debt, to extend existing debt maturities, pay down near term debt, repurchase preferred capital securities and for other general corporate purposes. Partially offsetting the increase in stockholders equity were increased minimum pension obligations, due mostly to unfavorable financial markets, which reduced stockholders equity by $552 million at year end. Summary Results for 2000 through 2002 The consolidated results of operations follow: Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 6,202 $ 5,436 $ 4,946 Premiums and other 2,368 2,027 1,921 Investment income 252 213 508 Total consolidated revenue 8,822 7,676 7,375 Expenses: General expenses 6,505 5,813 5,190 Benefits to policyholders 1,375 1,111 1,037 Interest expense 124 127 140 Amortization of intangible assets 54 158 154 Unusual charges (credits) World Trade Center (29 ) 158 Total expenses 8,029 7,367 6,521 Income before income tax and minority interest $ 793 $ 309 $ 854 Consolidated Results for 2002 Compared to 2001 Revenue In 2002: revenue increased 15% over 2001 to $8.8 billion. We saw improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, premiums earned and investment income. Revenue increased 14% when we exclude the effects of foreign exchange rates. We do not directly hedge revenues against foreign currency translation because it is not cost effective, but we do attempt to mitigate the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on pretax income. consolidated revenue for the operating segments grew 12% on an organic basis over 2001. 22 Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: Years ended December 31 2002 % of Total 2001 % of Total 2000 % of Total (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 5,034 57 % $ 4,463 58 % $ 4,350 59 % United Kingdom 1,621 18 1,390 18 1,363 19 Continent of Europe 1,117 13 938 12 833 11 Rest of World 1,050 12 885 12 829 11 Total revenue $ 8,822 100 % $ 7,676 100 % $ 7,375 100 % U.S. consolidated revenue, which represents 57% of total revenue, increased 13% in 2002 compared to 2001, as a result of strong organic growth. More specifically: Commercial property and casualty premium rate increases for most lines of coverage continued. As a broker, we benefit from this through increased commissions. In addition, client demand for risk retention programs and services contributed to this increase, especially reinsurance and wholesale brokerage U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue combined increased 18% to $2.7 billion and Rest of World revenue increased 19%, reflecting strong new business, the impact of increasing premium rates that tend to increase commissions and foreign exchange. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 14% to $6.2 billion primarily from organic growth including increased premium rates, increased new business and outsourcing contracts. This was somewhat offset by revenue disruptions in the early part of the year with our managing general underwriter unit. Acquisitions contributed $90 million of incremental revenue in 2002. Premiums and other, primarily related to insurance underwriting operations, improved to $2.4 billion, a 17% increase over 2001. The increase: primarily reflects growth in new business initiatives, traditional accident and health lines, and new specialty property and casualty lines was somewhat offset by the impact of the prior loss of some accounts in the warranty business. Investment income, which includes related expenses and income or loss on disposals and impairments, increased by 18% over 2001, despite a drop in interest rates. The increase was driven by: improved returns on limited partnerships and other private equity investments accounted for on the equity method in 2002 a one time tax related settlement of $48 million. Offsetting these improvements were impairment write downs for certain directly owned investments, including those classified as other than temporary, which were $73 million higher than last year. Investment income from our Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting segments, primarily relating to fiduciary funds, decreased $46 million compared to 2001 primarily due to declining interest rates. 23 Expenses Total expenses increased $662 million or 9% over 2001. Total expenses rose 15%, excluding the following items: a $29 million credit in 2002 due to a settlement with our insurance carriers regarding reimbursement for depreciable assets destroyed in the World Trade Center $158 million in unusual charges in 2001 related to the World Trade Center (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements) and $218 million of expenses in 2001 related to the business transformation plan. General expenses increased 12% over 2001. Excluding the costs related to the business transformation plan, general expenses rose 16%, reflecting: growth of the businesses higher costs in the U.S. retail brokerage business increased risk management and litigation reserve items higher overall pension plan costs issues related to National Program Services, Inc. (NPS), as described below costs related to the planned spin off discontinued underwriting businesses Benefits to policyholders rose $264 million or 24% due to new business volume increases, an increased payout ratio of benefits to policyholders versus net premiums earned and a shift in business mix to products with higher benefit payout ratios. Interest expense was down slightly due to lower short term interest rates. Amortization of intangible assets declined $104 million from 2001 as goodwill was not amortized in 2002 in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142 (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). Income Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Income before income tax and minority interest increased significantly from $309 million in 2001 to $793 million in 2002. This increase is due primarily to the net change in expenses related to the World Trade Center ($187 million), the business transformation plan ($224 million) and the improvement in Corporate and Other revenue ($150 million). Approximately 79% of Aons consolidated income before income tax and minority interest was from international operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 39.5% in 2001 and 37% in 2002. The decline from 2001 was due to the non deductibility of certain goodwill, which, beginning in 2002, is no longer amortized for book purposes. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions. Net Income Current years net income increased to $466 million ($1.64 per dilutive share) from $147 million ($0.53 per dilutive share) in 2001. Basic net income per share was $1.65 and $0.54 for 2002 and 2001, 24 respectively. Dividends paid for the redeemable preferred stock have been deducted from net income to compute income per share. Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2002 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2001 Total revenues in the quarter rose 16% to $2.4 billion. On a comparable currency basis, revenue climbed 13%. The higher revenue growth reflects: 9% operating segment organic growth primarily as a result of strong demand for Aons services and products a $73 million improvement in consolidated investment income. In detail, the higher revenue growth reflects: Very good results from reinsurance, international and wholesale brokerage Continued improvement from U.S. retail brokerage over 2001 and increased managing general underwriters production over the first half of 2002, when an insurance carrier had to be switched for some major programs Consulting segment revenue growth, driven mostly by new outsourcing business initiated in third quarter 2002, and good growth in the Continent of Europe and Pacific regions Accident and health insurance premium growth and premium growth for certain specialty insurance programs Significantly improved investment income from last year, when unfavorable equity markets negatively impacted results. Income before income taxes and minority interest increased by $225 million. Excluding the impact of the World Trade Center credit in 2002 and charge in 2001, income before income taxes and minority interest rose 64%. Strong revenue growth and the absence of goodwill amortization in 2002 was partially offset by: the addition of new lower margin outsourcing business in our Consulting segment losses and other costs attributable to Aons decision to discontinue certain accident and health insurance underwriting in Latin America and large company group life businesses in the Insurance Underwriting segment costs associated with previous spin off plans, and related items, that will not be pursued. Consolidated Results for 2001 Compared to 2000 Revenue Total revenues were $7.7 billion, an increase of 4%. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange rates, revenues increased 6% over the comparable period. Improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, as well as premiums earned, were partially offset by a decline in investment income resulting from decreased valuations of limited partnerships, lower interest rates and higher losses on disposals of investments. In addition, there was a falloff in parts of U.S. retail brokerage revenue primarily due to slower new account generation and below normal client retention. Consolidated organic revenue growth was 8% in 2001. For the year, acquisitions net of dispositions improved operating revenues by $207 million. 25 U.S. revenues, which represent 58% of total revenue, increased 3% in 2001 compared to 2000 as organic growth and acquisition activity was partially offset by declines in parts of the retail brokerage business as well as a significant drop in investment income. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues combined increased 6% to $2.3 billion and Rest of World revenue of $885 million increased 7% reflecting acquisitions, new business and the impact of increasing premium rates that tend to increase commissions. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 10% to $5.4 billion, primarily from organic growth in non U.S. retail brokerage and worldwide reinsurance brokerage, business combination activity, increased new business and the impact of increased property and casualty premium rates. This growth was offset somewhat by unfavorable results in parts of U.S. retail brokerage due to delays in implementing the business transformation plan. Premiums and other increased 6% in 2001 to $2.0 billion. This increase primarily reflects: continued organic growth strong growth in lower margin new business initiatives the impact of the acquisition of First Extended, Inc. This increase was somewhat offset by the loss of some accounts in the warranty business, in addition to a general slowdown in the economy. Investment income, which includes related expenses and income or loss on disposals and impairments, decreased significantly when compared to 2000, primarily reflecting: reduced valuations on equity investments in limited partnerships lower short term interest rates. In particular, declining interest rates affected investment income from the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting segments, primarily relating to fiduciary funds; this income decreased $31 million compared to 2000. the other than temporary impairment recorded for certain directly owned equity investments. Returns on private equity investments tend to fluctuate due to the inherent volatility of equity securities. Expenses General expenses increased 12% over 2000. Excluding costs related to business transformation in 2001 and 2000, general expenses increased $487 million or 10% over 2000 primarily reflecting: expenditures to grow the brokerage business the impact of acquisitions transition costs related to the business transformation plan. Benefits to policyholders rose $74 million or 7% as a result of new underwriting initiatives and an unusual increase in warranty claims related to an isolated program that will not affect future periods. Interest expense decreased 9% or $13 million from prior year, partly attributable to decreases in short term interest rates and lower average debt balances. Unusual charges World Trade Center represent: $135 million of insurance benefits paid a $10 million commitment to the Aon Memorial Education Fund to support the education needs of the children of Aon employees who were victims of the September 11th attacks 26 $13 million of other costs that may not be recoverable from insurance. Income Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Income before income tax and minority interest declined significantly from $854 million in 2000 to $309 million in 2001, due to: expenses in 2001 related to the events of September 11th slower revenue growth in parts of the U.S. retail brokerage business due to delays in the implementation of the business transformation plan an increase in year over year business transformation expenses of $136 million a decline in consolidated investment income of $295 million. All of our consolidated income before income tax is from non U.S. operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 39.5% for 2001 and 39% for 2000. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions and the non deductibility of certain goodwill amortization. Net Income Net income for 2001 was $147 million or $0.53 per dilutive share compared to $474 million or $1.79 per dilutive share in 2000. Basic net income per share was $0.54 and $1.81 for 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2000, Aon adopted the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, which resulted in a one time cumulative non cash charge of $7 million after tax ($0.03 per share). We have deducted dividends on the redeemable preferred stock from net income to compute income per share. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Insurance Brokerage and Other Services, Consulting and Insurance Underwriting (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). Aons operating segments are identified as those that: report separate financial information are evaluated regularly when we are deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Total revenue for each of the operating segments is presented both by major product and service and by geographic area in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. Because our culture fosters interdependence among the operating units, allocating expenses by product and geography is difficult. While we track and evaluate revenue for each segment, expenses are allocated to products and services within each of the operating segments. In addition to revenue, we also measure each segments financial performance using its income before income tax. 27 Operating segment revenue includes investment income, as well as the impact of related derivatives, generated by operating invested assets of that segment. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective operating segments: Our Insurance Brokerage and Other Services and Consulting businesses invest fiduciary funds and operating funds in shorter term obligations In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. Investments underlying interest sensitive capital accumulation insurance liabilities are fixed or floating rate fixed maturity obligations. For this business segment, operating invested assets are equivalent to average net policy liabilities Our insurance subsidiaries also have invested assets that exceed average net policy liabilities, in order to maintain solid claims paying ratings. These investments are mostly equity related and income from these investments are reflected in Corporate and Other segment revenues. The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Operating segment revenue: Insurance Brokerage and Other Services $ 5,263 $ 4,659 $ 4,367 Consulting 1,054 938 770 Insurance Underwriting 2,526 2,250 2,167 Total operating segments $ 8,843 $ 7,847 $ 7,304 Income before income tax: Insurance Brokerage and Other Services $ 763 $ 524 $ 690 Consulting 120 126 106 Insurance Underwriting 152 150 300 Total income before income tax operating segments $ 1,035 $ 800 $ 1,096 Insurance Brokerage and Other Services Aon is a leader in many sectors of the insurance industry: globally, it is the second largest insurance broker, the largest reinsurance broker and the leading manager of captive insurance companies worldwide. In the U.S., Aon is the second largest multi line claims services provider, and the largest wholesale broker and underwriting manager. These rankings are based on most recent surveys compiled and reports printed by Business Insurance. Insurance Brokerage and Other Services generated approximately 60% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2002. Revenues are generated primarily through: fees paid by clients commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies certain other carrier compensation interest income on funds held primarily in a fiduciary capacity. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of: how our clients policy renewals are timed 28 the net effect of new and lost business volume based commissions and overrides the timing of services provided to our clients the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short term interest rates. Although expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year, in 2001 expenses were increased by the business transformation plan and the terrorist attacks of September 11th. This segment: addresses the highly specialized product development, consulting and risk management needs of professional groups, service businesses, governments, healthcare providers, commercial organizations and non profit groups, among others provides affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations and businesses. Certain operating subsidiaries provide marketing and brokerage services to both the primary insurance and reinsurance sectors offers claims management and loss cost management services to insurance companies and firms with self insurance programs provides wholesale brokerage, managing underwriting and premium finance services to independent agents and brokers. The Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment revenues vary because a large part of our compensation is tied to the premiums paid by those we insure, and both premium rate levels in the property and casualty insurance markets and available insurance capacity also fluctuate. Revenue Total 2002 Insurance Brokerage and Other Services revenue was $5.3 billion, up 13% on a reported basis. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenue rose 12% over last year. Most of this growth was organic, including the impact of hardening premium rates. U.S. and international retail, reinsurance and wholesale brokerage all posted solid revenue growth. Insurance Brokerage and Other Services operating revenue, on an organic basis, grew approximately 12% in a very competitive environment. Investment income decreased $43 million in 2002 as short term interest rates declined. Continuing the trend from last year, increases in insurance premium rates benefited revenues in 2002. After September 11th, insurance markets whose premium rates were rising already rose further as a result of restrictions on the availability of some coverages and the pressure on the financial strength of some insurance companies. The property and casualty insurance market is very competitive. As premium rates rise, clients often retain more risk. This dynamic has, and may continue to, limit revenue growth, for pure brokerage services, but it provides opportunities to offer more captive insurance and claims management services, as well as safety and loss control services. 29  This chart shows Insurance Brokerage and Other Services revenue by geographic area and pretax income: Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,604 $ 2,425 $ 2,277 United Kingdom 1,087 918 889 Continent of Europe 857 733 654 Rest of World 715 583 547 Total revenue $ 5,263 $ 4,659 $ 4,367 Income before income tax $ 763 $ 524 $ 690 In 2002, U.S. revenue of $2.6 billion rose 7% primarily from organic growth, including premium rate increases, and the impact of acquisitions. This growth was partially offset, however, by lower investment income due to lower interest rates, along with a $24 million fee earned in 2001 in connection with the formation of Endurance Specialty Insurance, Ltd. Underperformance in the managing underwriting group and U.S. retail brokerage in 2002 tempered growth in the U.S. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues of $1.9 billion increased 18% from 2001 primarily as a result of organic growth driven by higher insurance premium rates and new business. Rest of World revenue increased $132 million or 23%, primarily reflecting organic growth resulting from new business, improved renewal rates, and the positive impact of premium rate increases on commissions. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income increased $239 million from 2001 to $763 million. In 2002, pretax margins in this segment were 14.5%, up from 11.2% in 2001. These increases were due: principally to lower net business transformation costs between 2002 and 2001 of $193 million and lower transition costs in 2002 versus 2001 of $20 million secondarily, to a $29 million reimbursement we received in 2002 from our property insurers for depreciable assets destroyed on September 11th, which represents the difference between insurance reimbursements and the net book value of our destroyed assets. We have replaced most of these assets, and the depreciation on these assets will affect future income. In 2001, the destruction of the World Trade Center resulted in expenses of $23 million. Pretax income, excluding these items, fell 1% from 2001 to $728 million. Pretax margins, excluding these items, were 13.8% for 2002 versus 15.8% last year. The margin decline was principally driven by higher costs in certain parts of the U.S. retail business and lower revenue in our managing underwriting group. Also contributing to the adjusted pretax margin decline were increased compensation costs including higher pension costs and some one time special incentive compensation, reduced investment income and lower claims handling fees. These items more than offset strong organic growth and business transformation savings. 30 Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. This segment: provides a full range of human capital management services, from employee benefits to compensation consulting generates 12% of Aons total operating segment revenues. The acquisition of ASI in 2001 significantly expanded our abilities, especially our outsourcing services. Consulting services are delivered to corporate clients through five major practices: 1.Employee benefits constructs and implements benefit packages, and conducts proprietary research on employee commitment and loyalty. 2.Compensation focuses on designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option and other pay structures, with special expertise in the financial institution and technology fields. 3.Management consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development. 4.Outsourcing offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration and other employment services. 5.Communications advises clients on how to communicate on initiatives that support their corporate vision. Revenues in the Consulting segment are affected by changes in clients industries, including government regulation, as well as new products and services, the state of the economic cycle, broad trends in employee demographics and the management of large organizations. Revenue In 2002, revenues of $1.1 billion increased 12% over 2001. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, the growth rate was 11%. Globally, the improvement in revenue was influenced by 9% organic growth as well as acquisitions. Organic revenue owed a significant portion of its growth to a sizeable human resources outsourcing agreement which we initiated in third quarter 2002. Good growth also occurred in the Continent of Europe and the Pacific region, as well as the management consulting group. Despite this years growth, economic conditions continue to be difficult for this segment: the sluggish global economy, a slowdown in client hiring and slower discretionary spending by clients, has put pressure on organic revenue growth. Investment income in the Consulting segment was down $3 million from 2001 due to lower interest rates. 31 This chart shows Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 703 $ 628 $ 486 United Kingdom 160 157 151 Continent of Europe 105 77 67 Rest of World 86 76 66 Total revenue $ 1,054 $ 938 $ 770 Income before income tax $ 120 $ 126 $ 106 From 2001: U.S. revenue of $703 million grew 12%, primarily reflecting the new outsourcing agreement in 2002 and the 2001 acquisition of ASI, combined with growth in the employee benefits practice and management consulting Continent of Europe and Rest of World revenues rose $38 million on organic growth. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income was $120 million, a 5% decline from last year. In 2002, pretax margins in this segment were 11.4%, down from 13.4% in 2001. Excluding expenses related to business transformation in 2001, pretax income fell 10% in 2002, and in 2001, pretax margin was 14.2%. Pretax margins were reduced by a large new human resources outsourcing contract. Although this contract is expected to provide favorable returns over the life of the multi year agreement, it pressured margins in 2002 for the following reasons: outsourcing business has lower margins than other consulting businesses up front costs were incurred to secure the new contract revenues for sub contractors under the contract flow through our income statement even though we merely pass them on without receiving any income from them margins are lower at the beginning of the contract since we inherited the clients cost structure and we plan to create efficiencies to improve margins through the life of the contract. Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment: provides supplemental accident, health and life insurance coverage mostly through direct distribution networks, primarily 7,500 career insurance agents, working for our subsidiaries offers extended warranty and casualty insurance products that are sold through retailers, automotive dealers, insurance agents and brokers and real estate brokers offers select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis through managing general underwriters, primarily Aon owned companies has operations in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific generates approximately 28% of Aons total operating segment revenues. 32 In the accident, health and life operations, we provide an array of accident, sickness, short term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations, and are not subject to escalating medical cost inflation. We have developed relationships with select brokers and consultants to reach specific niche markets. In addition to the traditional business sold by our career agents, we have expanded product distribution to include direct response programs, affinity groups and worksite marketing, creating access to new markets and potential new policyholders. In fourth quarter 2002, we announced our plans to sell Sheffield Insurance Corporation, a small property casualty company. In early 2003, we announced plans to discontinue our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, as well as our large company group life business in the U.S. Our subsidiaries in North America, Latin America, Asia/Pacific and Europe provide warranties on automobiles and a variety of consumer goods, including electronics and appliances. In addition, we provide non structural home warranties and other warranty products, such as credit card enhancements and affinity warranty programs. Revenues earned from non risk bearing activities and the administration of certain extended warranty services on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and appliances are reflected in the Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment based on how the business is reviewed by management. Revenue In 2002, revenues of $2.5 billion increased 12% over 2001. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenues rose by 11%. Improvement over last year was driven by: strong organic growth of 14% new specialty property and casualty insurance business and newer accident and health insurance programs. Partially offsetting core business growth was lower investment income of $65 million as well as the loss of several accounts in the extended warranty business. This chart details Insurance Underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 1,784 $ 1,615 $ 1,545 United Kingdom 363 302 308 Continent of Europe 151 125 111 Rest of World 228 208 203 Total revenue $ 2,526 $ 2,250 $ 2,167 Income before income tax $ 152 $ 150 $ 300 In 2002, U.S. revenue increased $169 million to $1.8 billion. The increase was primarily driven by new product initiatives and increased revenues for accident and health products, which more than offset declines in investment income, which includes guaranteed investment contract revenue. (Expenses related to guaranteed investment contracts are reflected in benefits to policyholders.) U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue increased 20% to $514 million. Rest of World revenue was up 10% to $228 million. 33 The discontinued and sold businesses generated approximately $100 million of earned premium in 2002. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income of $152 million increased 1% from 2001. Pretax margins fell from 6.7% in 2001 to 6.0% in 2002. Excluding spin off plan expenses in 2002 ($33 million pretax) and the World Trade Center ($135 million pretax) and business transformation costs ($24 million pretax) in 2001, pretax income of $185 million in 2002 fell significantly from $309 million in 2001. Pretax margins declined from 13.7% in 2001 to 7.3% in 2002. The remainder of the spin off costs are included in the Corporate and Other segment. Reasons for the decline in pretax income and margin include: an increased payout ratio of benefits to policyholders losses involving NPS. NPS was an independent managing general agent hired to handle quoting, binding, premium collection, claims adjusting and other servicing related to general liability insurance policies issued by one of Aons subsidiaries. We stopped NPS from initiating any new Aon business in mid 2002 after we obtained a temporary restraining order. We and others sued NPS for fraud, among other things. Based on our review of policies issued, we provided an additional $21 million to increase loss reserves and for other expenses, as well as $15 million for an allowance against the receivable owed to us by NPS losses at certain unprofitable underwriting units, including accident and health insurance underwriting in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil and large company group life business in the U.S. a decline in investment income a provision for non claims litigation. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other segment revenue consists primarily of investment income (including income or loss on disposals, including impairment losses), which is not otherwise reflected in the operating segments. This segment includes invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries and related income. Private equities are principally carried at cost except where Aon has significant influence, in which case they are carried under the equity method. These investments usually do not pay dividends. Limited partnerships are accounted for on the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying limited partnership investments flow through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Because the limited partnership investments include exchange traded securities, Corporate and Other segment revenue fluctuates with the market values of underlying publicly traded equity investments. Limited partnership investments have historically provided higher returns over a longer time than broad market common stock. However, in the short run, the returns are inherently more variable. On December 31, 2001, we securitized $450 million of our limited partnership investments plus associated limited partnership commitments, which represented the majority of our limited partnership interests. In connection with the securitization, we received a combination of cash ($171 million) and securities ($279 million). This transaction has lessened the variability of revenue reported in the Corporate and Other segment. The limited partnership investments were included in our consolidated 34 statement of financial position prior to the securitization and the cash and securities received from the securitization are also included in Aons consolidated statement of financial position. Although our portfolios are highly diversified, they still remain exposed to market, equity and credit risk. Our fixed maturity portfolio had a $37 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002, including $6 million related to deferred amortizable derivative losses, and is subject to interest rate, market and credit risks. With a carrying value of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2002, our total fixed maturity portfolio is 94% investment grade based on market value. Fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss are 87% investment grade and have a weighted average rating of "A" based on amortized cost. The equity portfolio is comprised of: non redeemable preferred stocks. This portfolio had a $2 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002, and is subject to interest rate, market, credit and illiquidity risks publicly traded common stocks. The common stock portfolio had no gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002 and is subject to market risk other common and preferred stocks not publicly traded. These investments had a $13 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002, and are subject to illiquidity, concentration and operation performance risks. The following table analyzes our investment positions with unrealized losses segmented by quality and period of continuous unrealized loss (excluding deferred amortizable derivative losses of $6 million) as of December 31, 2002. 35 Analysis of Investment Positions with Unrealized Losses Segmented by Quality and period of Continuous Unrealized Loss* As of December 31, 2002 Investment Grade Non Investment Grade Not Rated 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt; 12 Months Total 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt; 12 Months Total 0 6 Months 6 12 Months &gt; 12 Months Total Grand Total ($ in millions) FIXED MATURITIES # of positions 14 4 38 56 6 4 10 66 Fair Value $ 44 $ 15 $ 224 $ 283 $ 25 $ 16 $ $ 41 $ $ $ $ $ 324 Amortized Cost 46 16 248 310 27 18 45 355 Unrealized Loss (2 ) (1 ) (24 ) (27 ) (2 ) (2 ) (4 ) (31 ) EQUITIES: PREFERRED # of positions 3 2 5 5 Fair Value $ 11 $ 5 $ $ 16 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 16 Cost 12 6 18 18 Unrealized Loss (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) EQUITIES: COMMON # of positions 1 1 1 1 2 3 Fair Value $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 $ 2 $ 3 $ 3 Cost 1 2 3 3 Unrealized Loss OTHER # of positions 1 1 1 Fair Value $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 14 $ $ $ 14 $ 14 Cost 27 27 27 Unrealized Loss (13 ) (13 ) (13 ) TOTAL # of positions 17 6 38 61 7 4 11 1 1 1 3 75 Fair Value $ 55 $ 20 $ 224 $ 299 $ 25 $ 16 $ $ 41 $ 14 $ 1 $ 2 $ 17 $ 357 Cost 58 22 248 328 27 18 45 27 1 2 30 403 Unrealized Loss (3 ) (2 ) (24 ) (29 ) (2 ) (2 ) (4 ) (13 ) (13 ) (46 ) % of Total Unrealized Loss 7 % 4 % 53 % 64 % 4 % 4 % 0 % 8 % 28 % 0 % 0 % 28 % 100 % *For categorization purposes, Aon considers any rating of Baa or higher by Moodys or equivalent rating agency to be investment grade. 36 At December 31, 2002, our: diversified fixed maturity portfolio had 66 positions with $31 million of total gross unrealized losses, excluding deferred amortizable derivative losses. No single position had an unrealized loss greater than $2 million. equity portfolio, including non redeemable preferred stocks, had 8 positions with $2 million of total gross unrealized losses. No single position had an unrealized loss greater than $1 million. investments classified as other investments in the consolidated statements of financial position had a $13 million gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002. The gross unrealized loss relates to preferred stock interests of Private Equity Partnerships Structures I, LLC (PEPS I), a QSPE, acquired on December 31, 2001. These preferred stock interests represent beneficial interests in securitized limited partnership investments. The fair value of the private preferred stock interests is dependent on the value of the limited partnership investments held by PEPS I. Management assesses other than temporary declines in the fair value below cost using a financial model that considers the value of the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I and the nature and timing of the cash flows from the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I. non publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio had a carrying value of $166 million, including $115 million in notes received from PEPS I on December 31, 2001 related to the securitization of limited partnerships and $40 million in notes issued by PEPS I to Aon during 2002. Valuations of these securities primarily reflect the fundamental analysis of the issuer and current market price of comparable securities. We: periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairments. We analyze various risk factors and determine if any specific asset impairments exist. If we determine there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value. review invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. Those assets are separated into two categories: (1)assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events, which we segment among four categories: fixed maturity investments; preferred stocks; publicly traded common stocks; and private equities and other invested assets. (2)assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events. Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events: Fixed maturity investments. At least quarterly, we: review the creditworthiness of corporate obligors for changes by nationally recognized credit rating agencies and changes in fundamental financial performance of the underlying entity. monitor cash flow trends and underlying levels of collateral for asset backed securities. evaluate all bonds and asset backed securities whose financial performance has declined for other than temporary impairment. 37  Preferred stocks. We review issuer creditworthiness at least quarterly. Creditworthiness factors reviewed include nationally recognized credit rating agency rating changes and changes in financial performance of the underlying issuer. We monitor all preferred stock investments with declining financial performance for other than temporary impairment. Publicly traded common stocks. Quarterly, we review each common stock investment to determine if its decline in value is deemed other than temporary. Criteria include a review of issuer financial trends, and market expectations based on third party forward looking analytical reports, when available. Private common stocks and other invested assets. We review quarterly private issue valuations, which include recent transaction valuations between the issuer and a third party; financial performance reviews; and financial trend comparisons with publicly traded companies in the same or similar industries. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss when appropriate for fixed maturity investments, common and preferred stock and other investments with continuous material unrealized losses due to issuer specific events. We base this decision upon the facts and circumstances for each investment in accordance with SAB 59, FASB Statement No. 115 and related guidance. Invested assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events include those negatively impacted by increasing U.S. Treasury or local sovereign interest rates; corporate and asset backed credit spread widening; common stock price volatility due to conditions in the overall market or a particular industry; and illiquid market conditions. Under some conditions, we assume that a decline in value below cost is not other than temporary. We make this assumption for fixed maturity investments with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events when: we expect the market to recover management has no current positive intent to sell we have the intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, which is a decisive factor when considering an impairment loss. If we decide that holding the investment no longer makes sense, we again evaluate that investment for other than temporary impairment. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss based upon each investments facts and circumstances, in accordance with SAB 59, FASB Statement No. 115 and related guidance. We continue to monitor these securities quarterly to ensure that unrealized losses do not result from issuer specific events. We evaluate for other than temporary impairment preferred and common stock and other investments with continuous material unrealized losses for two consecutive quarters due to market conditions or industry related events. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss based upon each investments facts and circumstances. We continue to monitor these securities quarterly to ensure that unrealized losses are not the result of issuer specific events. There are three risks inherent in the assessment methodology: market factors may differ from our expectations we may decide to subsequently sell a security for unforeseen liquidity needs the credit assessment or equity characteristics may change from our original assessment. 38 This chart shows the components of Corporate and Other revenue and expenses: Years ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Corporate and other revenue: Limited partnership investments $ 14 $ (94 ) $ 73 Income from marketable equity securities and other investments 31 7 9 Corporate and other revenue before net loss on disposals and related expenses and one time items 45 (87 ) 82 Interest on tax refund 48 Net loss on disposals and related expenses (114 ) (84 ) (11 ) Corporate and other revenue $ (21 ) $ (171 ) $ 71 Non operating expenses: General expenses $ 97 $ 75 $ 59 Interest expense 124 127 140 Amortization of goodwill 118 114 Loss before income tax $ (242 ) $ (491 ) $ (242 ) Revenue Corporate and Other revenue improved by $150 million to a negative $21 million in 2002 from a negative $171 million in 2001. The revenue improvement was primarily driven by: a rise in the value of private limited partnership investments. These investments had been negatively impacted by unfavorable market conditions in 2001. $48 million of interest income we received in 2002 from the settlement of a prior year tax issue. Offsetting the positive valuation gains were impairment write downs of certain fixed maturity and equity investments of $130 million in 2002 (including $51 million cumulative effect of the change in policy for recognizing other than temporary impairments from previous years) compared to $57 million in 2001. Loss Before Income Tax Corporate and Other expenses were $221 million, an improvement of $99 million from the comparable period in 2001. This decrease in expenses is primarily due to goodwill amortization. Beginning in 2002, goodwill was no longer amortized (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). Compared to 2001: Interest expense declined $3 million primarily from lower short term interest rates. General expenses rose $22 million due principally to $17 million of corporate overhead costs related to the previous planned divestiture of the underwriting businesses. These revenue and expense comparisons contributed to the overall Corporate and Other pretax loss of $242 million in 2002 versus a loss of $491 million in 2001. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations include certain insurance underwriting subsidiaries acquired with Alexander and Alexander Services, Inc. (A&A) that are in run off and the indemnification by A&A of certain liabilities relating to subsidiaries sold by A&A before its acquisition by Aon. 39 Management believes that, based on current estimates, these discontinued operations are adequately reserved. The net liability is included as a component of other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position. In 2002, Aon settled certain of these liabilities. The settlement had no material effect on the consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Our routine liquidity needs are primarily for servicing debt and for paying dividends on outstanding stock and capital securities. Our primary source for meeting these requirements is from dividends and internal financing from our operating subsidiaries. After meeting our routine dividend and debt servicing requirements, we used a portion of the remaining funding received throughout the year to expand our operating segment businesses and invest in acquisitions. (Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements discusses regulatory restrictions relating to dividend capacity of our insurance subsidiaries.) Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries statutory capital and surplus at year end 2002 exceeded the risk based capital target set by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners by a satisfactory level. We have advised the rating agencies that we do not expect our two major U.S. insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to Aon in 2003. Beyond 2003, we expect these U.S. subsidiaries to consider resuming paying dividends. Our operating subsidiaries anticipate that there will be adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. We have used cash flow primarily for: debt reduction dividend payments business reinvestment acquisition financing payments of business transformation and other special charge and purchase accounting liabilities. We expect our subsidiaries positive cash flow to continue, and with it, our ability to access adequate short term lines of credit. Cash on our statements of financial position includes funds available for general corporate purposes and funds we are holding on behalf of clients and to satisfy policyholder liabilities. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations represent the net income we earned in the reported periods adjusted for non cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for 2002 were $1.2 billion. However, not all funds generated were available for use by us. Net income attributable to our insurance subsidiaries was approximately $50 million, net of losses on disposals recognized in our Corporate and Other segment, and changes in their operating assets and liabilities, net of reinsurance, represented $335 million in 2002. This was primarily due to unearned premiums and other fees recorded and collected by the specialty property and casualty group (which includes extended warranty) as a result of an increase in its insurance retention on several client programs and new property and casualty business. The majority of these funds will be used to satisfy future benefits to policyholders with the remainder being available, after taxes and other income and expense, for dividend to Aon in future years. The operating cash flow from our insurance subsidiaries of $385 million was not available for general corporate purposes in 2002. Also, in 2002, we decided not 40 to upstream any of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries earnings to Aon parent company in order to enhance their financial positions even further. In our insurance brokerage and consulting businesses we collect cash payments from clients that include both premiums (payable to insurance companies for policies they issue) and commissions and fees (payable to us for our brokerage and consulting services). The commissions and fees are recorded by us as income. For a short time period, we hold clients premiums in fiduciary accounts before remitting them to insurers. When a payment is due from a client for premiums, commissions and fees, we establish a receivable for the gross amount and a payable to the insurance company for the premium portions. The net balance for these are reflected in "Other receivables and liabilities, net". For 2003, the net difference between these receivables and payables added approximately $300 million to cash flow from operations, but are only held temporarily by us on behalf of our clients and or carriers. During the fourth quarter 2002, we raised $607 million by issuing 36.8 million shares of new common equity and $519 million by issuing long term debt. A total of $1.7 billion in cash from available operating cash flows and debt and equity net proceeds was primarily used for the following purposes: pay down commercial paper, other short term debt and notes payable, as well as repurchase a portion of our trust preferred stock ($797 million) $150 million was kept liquid and used for January 2003 debt repayment pay dividends to our stockholders of $233 million investment in operations: expenditures for property and equipment consumed $278 million acquisition of businesses used $111 million cash increased by $67 million. Withdrawals of $682 million from "interest sensitive, annuity and investment type contracts" were funded primarily by sales of fixed maturity investments. We have decided to stop issuing these contracts and we are exiting the business. Financial Condition Since year end 2001, total assets increased $3.0 billion to $25.3 billion. Invested assets at December 31, 2002 increased $441 million from last year: primarily from an increase in short term investments, related to fiduciary funds, partially offset by sales of preferred stock during the year funds raised from issuing new common equity notes offerings. Most of the funds raised were used to: pay down commercial paper, other short term debt and notes payable repurchase a portion of our trust preferred stock. We also used $150 million in January 2003 to repay maturing debt securities. Insurance brokerage and consulting services receivables increased $1.5 billion in 2002 with a corresponding increase in insurance premiums payable of $1.7 billion. These increases reflect: the continued rise in premium rates across most lines of business 41 the escalating client demand for risk programs Aons strong overall new account growth. Other assets are comprised principally of prepaid premiums related to reinsurance and prepaid pension assets. The increase of $56 million from 2001 represents higher prepaid premiums, which offset a reduction in the pension assets due to the additional minimum pension liability adjustment in fourth quarter 2002. During 2002, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the United Kingdom, incurred significant valuation losses in the investments backing the related pension obligation, as a result of a decline in the international equity markets and a decline in interest rates. Other liabilities increased $602 million from 2001 due to the increase in our minimum pension liability. We are required to maintain, at a minimum, a liability equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. Other policyholder funds decreased $674 million in 2002, due primarily to interest sensitive and investment type contracts maturing and our decision to stop offering these programs. Aons consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2002 contains: a general expense liability of $53 million related to purchase restructuring liabilities (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) $28 million related to the business transformation plan (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). We anticipate paying most of the outstanding termination benefits over the next few years. The remaining items primarily reflect lease obligations and will run off over a period of up to ten years. We do not expect that payments for termination benefits and lease obligations will have a material impact on cash flows in subsequent periods. As planned, we have made payments that have reduced our restructuring liabilities related to recent acquisitions and prior year charges. Capital Resources Capital Enhancement Actions During the fourth quarter 2002, Aon raised net proceeds of $519 million by issuing long term debt as follows: we received $296 million ($300 million aggregate principal amount) by privately placing 10 year convertible senior debentures due 2012 with a 3.5% coupon rate. The debentures are unsecured obligations, initially convertible, under certain circumstances, into Aon common stock at a conversion price of approximately $21.475 per common share (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, we will be required to pay additional contingent interest, beginning November 15, 2007, if the trading price of the debentures for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of the six month interest period equals or exceeds 120% of the principal amount of the debentures. Beginning November 19, 2007, we may redeem any of the debentures at an initial redemption price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Interest on the debentures is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning May 15, 2003. we also received $223 million ($225 million aggregate principal amount) by privately placing 10 year senior term notes due 2012. Interest on these notes will accrue at a coupon rate of 7.375%. This interest is payable semiannually in arrears on June 14 and December 14 of each year, beginning June 14, 2003. During that same quarter, Aon raised $607 million by issuing 36.8 million shares of new common equity at $17.18 per share. The offering was made pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement. 42 In 2002, we used funds received from the debt and equity offerings to: pay down commercial paper and other short term debt partially repurchase certain debt securities due in 2003 and 2004 repurchase approximately $98 million of our 8.205% trust preferred capital securities. Beginning in 2003, minority interest on the capital securities will be approximately $9 million per quarter, reflecting the repurchase On January 15, 2003, we used a portion of the funds from the offerings to redeem $150 million of outstanding debt securities with an interest rate of LIBOR +1%. Short term Borrowings and Notes Payable Total debt at December 31, 2002 was $1.8 billion, down from $2 billion at December 31, 2001. Specifically: Short term debt declined $140 million, reflecting the paydown of the Euro credit facility and other foreign short term debt. Notes payable decreased by $23 million compared to year end 2001. Commercial paper outstanding declined to $1 million from $254 million at December 31, 2001. In 2001, all of our commercial paper was classified as notes payable in the consolidated statements of financial position based on Aons intent and ability to maintain or refinance these obligations on a long term basis. Contractual maturities of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2002, we renegotiated our back up lines of credit. Anticipating the previously planned spin off of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries, we reduced our line of credit to $875 million. As a result of our capital enhancement actions, we renegotiated our short term back up lines of credit, reducing the total amount to $775 million in February 2003. This agreement will expire in 2005. To achieve tax efficient financing, we renegotiated a new committed revolving bank credit facility in September 2001, under which certain European subsidiaries can borrow up to EUR 500 million. As of December 31, 2002, Aon had borrowed EUR 74 million ($76 million) under this facility, all of which is classified as short term borrowings in the consolidated statements of financial position. The major rating agencies ratings of our debt securities at December 31, 2002 appear in the table below. Standard And Poors Moodys Investor Services Fitch, Inc. Senior long term debt A Baa2 A Commercial paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Aons principal insurance underwriting subsidiaries are rated "A", with a stable outlook by A.M. Best for their claims paying ability. Aon borrows funds from, and lends funds to, its various subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2002, we had obligations to our subsidiaries of approximately $433 million. These obligations have competitive interest rates. 43 Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $430 million during 2002, reflecting: the $607 million raised by issuing 36.8 million shares of new common equity at $17.18 per share net income before preferred dividends of $466 million. Partially offsetting the increase were dividends paid to stockholders of $233 million. Accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $419 million since December 31, 2001. Net foreign exchange losses improved by $69 million primarily because of the weakening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies as compared to the prior year. Net derivative gains increased $22 million over year end 2001. Net unrealized investment gains rose $42 million during 2002, driven principally by the recognition of $130 million pretax ($82 million after tax) write downs in the consolidated statement of income during 2002. These investment write downs did not affect total stockholders equity. During 2002, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the United Kingdom, incurred significant valuation losses in the investments backing the related pension obligation. These losses were primarily a result of the decline in the international equity markets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. require a company to maintain, at a minimum, a liability on its balance sheet equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. At year end 2002, this increased pension obligation caused a $552 million (after tax) reduction to stockholders equity. We maintain the related pension plan assets in separate trust accounts; they are not part of our consolidated financial statements. This non cash adjustment did not affect 2002 earnings. For 2003, we project our pension expense to increase by $130 million over what was recorded in 2002. The increase in our pension expense was significantly impacted by the unrecognized loss of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2002. We also expect cash contributions for the defined benefit pension plans to increase by $40 million in 2003. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to contribute significant additional amounts to our pension plans to satisfy provisions of the principal credit facility which supports our commercial paper program. We expect, however, to amend or replace such credit facilities. At December 31, 2002, stockholders equity per share was $12.56, down from $12.82 at December 31, 2001, due to the impact of increased pension obligations. Special Purpose Entities We use special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities (QSPE), also known as special purpose vehicles, in some of our operations, following the guidance of FASB Statement No. 140 and other relevant accounting guidance. Certain of our special purpose vehicles were formed solely to purchase financing receivables and sell those balances to conduits owned and managed by third party financial institutions. Subject to certain limitations, agreements provide for sales to these conduit vehicles continuing through December 2005. As of December 31, 2002, the maximum commitment contained in these agreements was $1.7 billion. Under the agreements, the receivables are sold to the conduits. Consequently, the conduits bear the credit risks on the receivables, subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves provided by our subsidiaries and which we guarantee. Under these recourse provisions, our maximum credit risk was approximately $97 million at December 31, 2002. We intend to renew these conduit facilities when they expire. If there are adverse bank, regulatory, tax or accounting rule changes, our access to the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be restricted. These special purpose vehicles are not included in our consolidated financial statements. 44 On December 31, 2001, we sold the vast majority of our limited partnership (LP) portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company, owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which we do not control, established for victims of the September 11th attacks (51%). PEPS I: sold approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities to unaffiliated third parties then paid our insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and issued them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. The fixed maturity securities our subsidiaries received from PEPS I are rated as investment grade by Standard & Poors Ratings Services. As part of this transaction, the insurance companies are required to purchase from PEPS I additional fixed maturity securities in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. Approximately $38 million of these commitments were funded in 2002. As of December 31, 2002, the unfunded commitments amounted to $100 million. Based on the downgrades made by the rating agencies in October 2002, credit support agreements were purchased on January 27, 2003, whereby $100 million of cash of one of our underwriting subsidiaries has been pledged as collateral for these commitments. These commitments have specific expiration dates and the general partners may decide not to draw on these commitments. If the insurance companies fail to purchase additional fixed maturity securities as commitments are drawn down, we have guaranteed their purchase. Subsequent to the closing of the securitization, one of the insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. The assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I are not included in our consolidated financial statements. In second quarter 2002, we recognized a $32 million impairment write down for this investment. We continue to monitor this investment for other than temporary impairment. While this transaction should significantly reduce the reported earnings volatility associated with these limited partnership investments, it will not significantly limit our ability to recoup past losses or realize potential gains. As part of CICAs strategy to issue stable value investments contracts to institutional investors, Combined Global Funding, LLC (Combined Global), a Cayman Islands based special purpose entity, was formed solely to issue notes to investors under a European Medium Term Note Program. The proceeds of the notes are used to purchase Funding Agreement policies issued by CICA. The contract terms of the Funding Agreement mirror the terms of the trust medium term notes. At the stated maturity of the Funding Agreement, CICA is required to settle with Combined Global, which then redeems the notes issued to investors. Neither CICA nor its affiliates own any shares of Combined Global. Outstanding Funding Agreements at December 31, 2002 were $79 million and are included in our consolidated statements of financial position in other policyholder funds. In early 2003, approximately $29 million of these outstanding agreements were settled. As this program has been placed in runoff, there are no new additional issuances of Funding Agreements anticipated, with the remaining liabilities maturing in 2005. 45  Investments We invest in broad asset categories related to our diversified operations. In managing our investments, our objective is to maximize earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks and regulatory requirements. We maintain well capitalized operating companies. The financial strength of these companies permits a diversified investment portfolio including invested cash, fixed income obligations, public and private equities and limited partnerships. The Corporate and Other segment contains invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income. These insurance assets, which are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and limited partnerships, represent a more aggressive investment strategy that gives us an opportunity for greater returns with longer term investments. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies, are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies and are unavailable for other uses such as debt reduction or share repurchases without considering regulatory requirements (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). Some of the limited partnerships in which we invest have holdings in publicly traded equities. If the market value of these equities changes, then the value of the limited partnerships also changes. Our ownership share of this partnership valuation is included in our reported Corporate and Other segment revenue. By comparison, we record changes in the market value of directly held, publicly traded equities directly in stockholders equity. As a consequence of this accounting, the Corporate and Other segment has exhibited greater variability in investment income than is the case of investments supporting the operating segments. In December 2001, we securitized $450 million of limited partnership investments and associated limited partnership commitments, which represent most of our limited partnership investments, via a sale to PEPS I. The securitization: gives our underwriting subsidiaries greater liquidity has lessened the revenue variability in the Corporate and Other segment. RISKS AND OUTLOOK Risks Related to Our Business and the Insurance Industry Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industries. Our results historically have been subject to significant fluctuations arising from uncertainties in the insurance industry. Changes in premium rates affect not only the potential profitability of our underwriting businesses but also generally affect the commissions and fees payable to our brokerage businesses. In addition, insurance industry developments that can significantly affect our financial performance include factors such as: rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; volatile and unpredictable developments, including weather related and other natural and man made catastrophes, including acts of terrorism; changes in levels of capacity and demand, including reinsurance capacity; and changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers liabilities develop. 46 A further decline in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility. On several occasions in recent months, the credit rating agencies have lowered the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper. Most recently, on October 31, 2002, Moodys Investors Service lowered its rating of our senior debt to the current rating of "Baa2" from "Baa1." Moodys also placed the rating of our senior debt and the "P 2" rating of our commercial paper under review for possible future downgrade, which it subsequently removed without change. On October 31, 2002, Standard & Poors Ratings Services placed its "A " rating of our senior debt on CreditWatch with negative implications, which it subsequently removed without change. As a result of the actions taken by the rating agencies on October 31, 2002, we have been required, in lieu of our existing guarantees, to fund an aggregate of approximately $43 million with respect to our automobile finance securitizations. A further downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper will increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. Any such further downgrade may trigger a further obligation of our company to fund an aggregate of up to $220 million with respect to our premium finance and automobile finance securitizations. We no longer securitize automobile finance amounts, and, as a result, we expect this amount will decline over time as the outstanding automobile finance securitizations run down. Moreover, some of our debt instruments, such as our 6.20% notes due January 2007 ($250 million of which are outstanding), expressly provide for interest rate increases in the case of certain ratings downgrades. Similarly, any such downgrade would increase our commercial paper interest rates or may result in our inability to access the commercial paper market altogether. If we cannot access the commercial paper market, although we have committed backup lines in excess of our currently outstanding commercial paper borrowings, we cannot assure you that it would not adversely affect our financial position. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt may also adversely affect the claims paying ability or financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. See "A decline in the financial strength or claims paying ability ratings of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may increase policy cancellations and negatively impact new sales of insurance products" below. We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses. We believe that competition in our lines of business is based on service, product features, price, commission structure, financial strength, claims paying ability ratings and name recognition. In particular, we compete with a large number of national, regional and local insurance companies and other financial services providers, brokers and, with respect to our extended warranty business, third party administrators, manufacturers and distributors. Some of our underwriting competitors have penetrated more markets and offer a more extensive portfolio of products and services and have more competitive pricing than we do, which can adversely affect our ability to compete for business. Some underwriters also have higher claims paying ability ratings and greater financial resources with which to compete and are subject to less government regulation than our underwriting operations. We encounter strong competition for both business and professional talent in our insurance brokerage and risk management services operations from other insurance brokerage firms which also operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and in other countries and regions, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants that provide risk related services and products. Our consulting operations compete with independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. 47 In addition, the increase in competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include: an increase in capital raising by insurance underwriting companies, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an influx of capital into the industry; the selling of insurance by insurance companies directly to insureds; the enactment of the Gramm Leach Bliley Act of 1999, which, among other things, permits financial institutions, such as banks and savings and loans, to sell insurance products, and also could result in new entrants to our markets; the establishment of programs in which state sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe prone areas or other alternative markets types of coverage; and changes in consumer buying practices caused by the Internet. New competition as a result of these developments could cause the supply of and demand for our products and services to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in the financial strength or claims paying ability ratings of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may increase policy cancellations and negatively impact new sales of insurance products. Financial strength and claims paying ability ratings have become increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies for the purpose of rendering an opinion as to an insurance companys financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. They are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors, nor are they recommendations to buy, sell or hold specific securities. Periodically, the rating agencies evaluate our insurance underwriting subsidiaries to confirm that they continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to them. A downgrade, or the potential for a downgrade, of these ratings could, among other things, increase the number of policy cancellations, adversely affect relationships with brokers, retailers and other distributors of their products and services, negatively impact new sales and adversely affect their ability to compete. Combined Specialty Insurance Company (formerly Virginia Surety Company, Inc.), our principal property and casualty insurance company subsidiary, is currently rated "A" (excellent; third highest of 16 rating levels) by A.M. Best Company. Combined Insurance Company of America, the principal insurance subsidiary that underwrites our specialty accident and health insurance business, is currently rated "A" (excellent; third highest of 16 rating levels) by A.M. Best Company, "BBB+" (good; fourth highest of nine rating levels and highest ranking within the level) for financial strength by Standard and Poors Ratings Services and "Baa1" (adequate; fourth highest of nine rating levels and highest ranking within the level) for financial strength by Moodys Investors Service. We cannot assure you that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw their financial strength or claims paying ability ratings in the future. Changes in interest rates and investment prices could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results. Our insurance underwriting subsidiaries carry a substantial investment portfolio of fixed maturity and equity and other long term investments. As of December 31, 2002, our fixed maturity investments (94% of which were investment grade) had a carrying value of $2.1 billion, our equity investments had a carrying value of $62 million and our other long term investments and limited partnerships had a 48 carrying value of $600 million. Accordingly, changes in interest rates and investment prices could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results. For example, changes in domestic and international interest rates directly affect our income from, and the market value of, fixed maturity investments. Similarly, general economic conditions, stock market conditions and other factors beyond our control affect the value of our equity investments. We monitor our portfolio for "other than temporary impairments" in carrying value. For securities judged to have an "other than temporary impairment," we recognize a realized loss through the statement of income to write down the value of those securities. For 2002, we recognized impairment losses of $130 million, which includes $51 million to reflect other than temporary impairments existing with respect to prior years. We cannot assure you that we will not have to recognize additional impairment losses in the future, which would negatively affect our financial results. On December 31, 2001, our two major insurance companies sold the vast majority of their limited partnership portfolio, valued at $450 million, to Private Equity Partnership Structures I, LLC, a qualifying special purpose entity. We utilized this qualifying special purpose entity following the guidance contained in Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 140 (Statement No. 140) and other relevant accounting guidance. The common stock interest in Private Equity Partnership Structures I is held by a limited liability company which is owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which is not controlled by us, established for victims of the September 11 attacks (51%). Approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities were sold by Private Equity Partnership Structures I to unaffiliated third parties. Private Equity Partnership Structures I then paid our insurance underwriting companies the $171 million in cash and issued to them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. The fixed maturity securities our insurance underwriting companies received from Private Equity Partnership Structures I are rated as investment grade by Standard & Poors Ratings Services. As part of this transaction, our insurance underwriting companies are required to purchase from Private Equity Partnership Structures I additional fixed maturity securities in an amount equal to the unfunded limited partnership commitments, as they are requested. As of December 31, 2002, these unfunded commitments amount to $100 million. Based on the actions taken by the ratings agencies on October 31, 2002, credit support arrangements were purchased on January 27, 2003. If our insurance underwriting companies fail to purchase additional fixed maturity securities as commitments are drawn down, we have guaranteed their purchase. Although the Private Equity Partnership Structures I transaction is expected to reduce the reported earnings volatility historically associated with directly owning limited partnership investments, it will not eliminate our risk of future losses. For instance, we must analyze our preferred stock and fixed maturity interests in Private Equity Partnership Structures I for other than temporary impairment, based on the valuation of the limited partnership interests held by Private Equity Partnership Structures I and recognize an impairment loss if necessary. We cannot assure you that we will not have to recognize impairment losses with respect to our Private Equity Partnership Structures I interests in the future. Our pension liabilities may continue to grow, which could adversely affect our stockholders equity or require us to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans. To the extent that the present value of the benefits incurred to date for pension obligations in the major countries in which we operate continue to exceed the market value of the assets supporting these obligations, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. Primarily as a result of the decline in the equity markets, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the United Kingdom, have suffered significant valuation losses in the assets backing the related pension obligation. On February 12, 2003, we announced that we incurred an after tax increase to the minimum pension liability and a commensurate reduction in 2002 year end stockholders equity of $552 million. 49 Current projections indicate that our 2003 pension expense would increase by approximately $130 million compared with 2002 and incremental cash contributions of approximately $40 million would be required in 2003. These estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, fair value of assets for some of our plans and expected return on plan assets. Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future decreases in stockholders equity or that we will not be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been announced. We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined adversely to us, would adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to numerous claims, tax assessments and lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business. The damages that may be claimed are substantial, including in many instances claims for punitive or extraordinary damages. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as a broker or provider of insurance products or as an employer. It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies and legal proceedings were not favorable to us, it could materially adversely affect our future financial results. In addition, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self insure. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. We believe that our continued success depends, in part, on the efforts of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced underwriters, brokers and other professional personnel. Competition for such experienced professional personnel is intense. If we cannot hire and retain talented personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to increasing costs arising from errors and omissions claims against us. We have experienced an increase in the frequency and severity of errors and omissions claims against us, which has and will continue to substantially increase our risk management expenses. In our insurance brokerage business, we often assist our clients with matters which include the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims. Errors and omissions claims against us may allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Errors and omissions claims could include, for example, the failure of our employees or sub agents, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage correctly or notify claims on behalf of clients or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign governmental regulation and supervision, which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or 50 proceedings. With respect to our insurance brokerage businesses, this supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and third party administrators and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokering and third party administration in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Also, we can be affected indirectly by the governmental regulation and supervision of other insurance companies. For instance, if we are providing managing general underwriting services for an insurer we may have to contend with regulations affecting our client. Further, regulation affecting the insurance companies with whom our brokers place business can affect how we conduct those operations. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. In the United States, this system of regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, affects the way we can conduct our insurance underwriting business. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including employee benefit plan regulation, age, race, disability and sex discrimination, investment company regulation, financial services regulation, securities laws and federal taxation, do affect the insurance industry generally and our insurance underwriting subsidiaries in particular. For example, recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation and privacy laws, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (as it relates to the use of medical and financial information by insurers), may result in additional regulatory compliance costs, limit the ability of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries to market their products or otherwise constrain the nature and scope of our operations. With respect to our international operations, we are subject to various regulations relating to, among other things, licensing, currency, policy language and terms, reserves and the amount of local investment. These various regulations also add to our cost of doing business through increased compliance expenses, the financial impact of use of capital restrictions and increased training and employee expenses. Furthermore, the loss of a license in a particular jurisdiction could restrict or eliminate our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as they have been in the past. Our significant global operations expose us to various international risks that could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: the general economic and political conditions existing in those countries; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; 51 hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; longer payment cycles; greater difficulties in accounts receivables collection; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. We must also translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into United States dollars. Although we use various derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse transaction and translation effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate such risks, and significant changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our underwriting reserves differ from actual experience. We maintain reserves as an estimate of our liability under insurance policies issued by our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. The reserves that we maintain that could cause variability in our financial results consist of (1) unearned premium reserves, (2) policy and contract claim reserves and (3) future policy benefit reserves. Unearned premium reserves generally reflect our liability to return premiums we have collected under policies in the event of the lapse or cancellation of those policies. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, premiums we have collected generally become "earned" over the life of a policy by means of a reduction in the amount of the unearned premium reserve associated with the policy. Unearned premium reserves are particularly significant with respect to our warranty business, given that the premiums we receive for warranty products generally cover an extended period of time. If there are significant lapses or cancellations of these types of policies, or expected losses for existing policies develop adversely and therefore premiums are not earned as expected, it may be necessary to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition expenses associated with the policies because these deferred expenses are amortized over the projected life of the policies or establish additional reserves to cover premium deficiencies. Policy and contract claim reserves reflect our estimated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees and general expenses for administering the claims adjustment process, and for reported and unreported losses incurred as of the end of each accounting period. If the reserves originally established for future claims prove inadequate, we would be required to increase our liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The obligation for policy and contract claims does not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent our best estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates represent informed judgments based on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Many of these factors are not quantifiable in advance and both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial and legal developments and legislative changes, can cause our estimates to vary. The inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves is greater for certain types of liabilities, where the variables affecting these types of claims are subject to change and long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are periodically refined as experience develops and further losses are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting the level of reserves for policy and contract claims is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure you that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. 52 Future policy benefit reserves generally reflect our liability to provide future life insurance benefits and future accident and health insurance benefits on guaranteed renewable and non cancelable policies. Future policy benefit reserves on accident and health and life products have been provided on the net level premium method. These reserves are calculated based on assumptions as to investment yield, mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates that were determined at the date of issue and provide for possible adverse deviations. We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our business transformation plan. In the fourth quarter of 2000, we began a comprehensive business transformation plan designed to enhance client service, improve productivity through process redesign and accelerate revenue growth. Outside of U.S. retail brokerage, the plan has been substantially implemented and has delivered the expected benefits, including improved revenue growth and enhanced productivity. Within U.S. retail brokerage, however, we experienced unexpected delays in implementing components of the plan, as well as higher than expected costs. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize all of the expected benefits associated with our business transformation plan. In addition, regardless of whether we are able to realize any of the benefits of the business transformation plan, we have incurred significant costs, which have been greater than those planned. The perceived conflicts associated with our insurance brokerage and underwriting businesses could limit our growth. Historically, we have not been able to fully exploit business opportunities due to the perceived conflicts associated with our insurance brokerage and underwriting businesses. For example, we have refrained from offering our extended warranty products and services through competing insurance brokers. Independent brokers have been reluctant to do business with our insurance underwriting business because they believed that any fees or information provided to us would ultimately benefit our competing brokerage business. These brokers also have been concerned that any information gleaned by our underwriting business regarding their clients and their clients insurance needs would be shared with our competing brokerage business to solicit new business from these clients. Similarly, competing underwriters have feared that our brokers could share information with our underwriting business in an effort to help secure desirable business or, alternatively, seek price quotes from them only for undesirable business. In the future, these perceived conflicts could limit our ability to expand our product and service offerings and seek new business through independent brokerage channels. Each of our business lines may be adversely affected by an overall decline in economic activity. The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and generally falls as such activity decreases, affecting both the commissions generated by our brokerage business and the premiums generated by our underwriting businesses. In particular, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Moreover, the results of our consulting business are generally affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets these clients serve. As our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to delay or forgo consulting engagements with us. Recent and proposed accounting rule changes could negatively affect our financial position and results. Recent accounting changes effected and proposals made could negatively affect our financial position or results of operations. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142 (Statement No. 142), which we adopted on January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer being amortized, but 53 must instead be tested annually for impairment in its value. Goodwill is the excess of cost over net assets purchased relating to business acquisitions. As of December 31, 2002, we had approximately $4.1 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet. If an impairment exists, we must recognize a non cash charge equal to the impairment, thereby reducing our net worth. Under our principal credit facility that supports our commercial paper program, we are required to maintain a minimum net worth of $2.5 billion. As of December 31, 2002, our net worth calculated for this purpose was $3.9 billion. In connection with our adoption of Statement No. 142 we tested our goodwill and found no impairment as of January 1, 2002. We have finalized our testing for 2002 and found no impairment. However, we cannot assure you that impairment will not exist when we perform testing in future periods, and any impairment charge we would be required to take would have a negative effect on our financial position and results. We have substantial debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility. We have substantial debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2002, we had total consolidated debt outstanding (including for this purpose our mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities) of approximately $2.5 billion. This substantial amount of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts. Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries, including our insurance underwriting companies. We have to rely on dividends from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations and for paying dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. Payments from our underwriting subsidiaries are limited by governmental regulation and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries. In some circumstances, specific payments from our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may require prior regulatory approval, and we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in the amounts we anticipate or require. The volume of premiums we write and our profitability are affected by the availability of reinsurance and the size and adequacy of our insurance company subsidiaries capital base. The level of business that our insurance underwriting subsidiaries are able to write depends on the size and adequacy of their capital base. Many state insurance laws to which they are subject impose risk based capital requirements for purposes of regulating insurer solvency. Insurers having less statutory surplus than that required by the risk based capital model formula generally are subject to varying degrees of regulatory scrutiny and intervention depending on the level of capital inadequacy. As of December 31, 2002, each of our insurance company subsidiaries met the risk based statutory surplus requirements of every state in which it conducts business. We purchase reinsurance for certain of the risks underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of business we are able to write and our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could adversely affect our underwriting business. 54 We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all. To better manage our portfolio of underwriting risk, we may, from time to time, purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we will assume (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium that we will receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance would make the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk were transferred (or ceded) to the reinsurer, it would not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we will bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, if any. Recently, due to industry and general economic conditions, there is an increasing risk of insolvency among reinsurance companies, resulting in a greater incidence of litigation and affecting the recoverability of claims. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers, if any, will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. Information Concerning Forward looking Statements This report contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results, depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include the general economic conditions in different countries around the world, fluctuations in global equity and fixed income markets, exchange rates, rating agency actions, pension funding, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates, the competitive environment, the actual costs of resolution of contingent liabilities and other loss contingencies, the heightened level of potential errors and omissions liability arising from placements of complex policies and sophisticated reinsurance arrangements in an insurance market in which insurer reserves are under pressure, the ultimate impact of the business transformation plan, and the timing and resolution of related insurance and reinsurance issues relating to the events of September 11, 2001. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Previously Planned Divestiture of Insurance Underwriting Businesses and Discontinuance of Certain Operations As previously discussed, in fourth quarter 2002, we announced our plans to sell Sheffield Insurance Corporation, a small property casualty company. In March 2003, we completed the sale. Capital Enhancement Actions As previously discussed, we received approximately $223 million ($225 million aggregate principal amount) by privately placing 7.375% senior notes in the fourth quarter 2002. In March 2003, we filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register the offer to exchange these notes for registered notes having identical terms. BTA Litigation On February 27, 2003, oral arguments were held before the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In the action filed by reinsurers in the U.K., the court decided that it should wait until at least June 2003 to allow determination of the outcome of the U.S. appeal. Other Items In February 2003, our insurance subsidiaries transferred, for appropriate consideration, shares of Endurance Specialty Insurance, Ltd., to other subsidiaries of Aon of approximately $75 million. 55  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Market Risk Exposure We are subject to various market risk exposures, including foreign exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risk. The following disclosures reflect estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Actual results may differ. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk associated with translating financial statements of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our primary exposures are to the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We use various derivative financial instruments (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements) to protect against adverse transaction and translation effects of exchange rate fluctuations. The potential decrease to our consolidated stockholders equity at December 31, 2002, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted year end foreign currency exchange rates, amounts to $207 million and $163 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The impact to 2002 and 2001 pretax income in the event of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the respective quoted year end exchange rates would not be material after consideration of derivative positions. The nature of the income of our businesses is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $14 million and $10 million to 2002 and 2001 pretax income, respectively. The valuation of our fixed maturity portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2002 and 2001 by approximately $85 million and $89 million, respectively. We have notes payable and capital securities outstanding with a fair value of $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Such fair value was greater than the carrying value by $36 million and $38 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 6% at both December 31, 2002 and 2001. The valuation of our marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $6 million at December 31, 2002 compared to $38 million at December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. We have selected the value ranges to represent changes in foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices only to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. This range of changes reflects changes we believe are possible over a one year period. The translated value of revenue and expense from our international brokerage and underwriting operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. However, the net impact of these fluctuations on Aons net income or cash flows has not been material. 56   
 
