Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Managements Discussion and Analysis is divided into six sections. First, an overview of the key drivers influencing our financial performance is provided by segment, along with an executive summary of 2003 financial results. Key recent events are then described that affected our financial results in 2003. Critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed, including certain accounting judgments important to understanding our financial statements. We then review our consolidated results and segments with year to year comparisons. Finally, we cover our financial condition and liquidity along with related disclosures as well as information on our off balance sheet arrangements. The outline for our Managements Discussion and Analysis is as follows: I. OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Executive Summary II. KEY RECENT EVENTS Segment Reporting, Reclassification and Cost Reallocation Run off and Discontinuance of Certain Operations World Trade Center Endurance Warrants and Common Stock Investment III. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Pensions Contingencies Policy Liabilities Intangible Assets IV. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General Summary Results for 2001 through 2003 Consolidated Results for 2003 Compared to 2002 Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2003 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2002 Consolidated Results for 2002 Compared to 2001 V. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Consulting Insurance Underwriting Corporate and Other VI. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Cash Flows Financial Condition Investments Borrowings Stockholders Equity Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 21  OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance The key drivers of financial performance vary among our segments. Segments Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services. Brokerage segment results are affected by a number of key drivers, including (i) conditions in insurance markets generally (particularly fluctuations in premiums charged by insurance companies), (ii) success in attracting new clients and avoiding loss of existing clients, (iii) managing our expenses, (iv) fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and (v) interest income on our investments. When premium rates rise in a "hard market", commissions generally increase as well. However, when insurance costs rise, insurance buyers resist paying increased premiums that include higher commissions. The resistance often results in buyers: raising their deductibles reducing the limits and types of insurance coverage they purchase switching to negotiated fees or commissions instead of straight commissions entering the alternative insurance market (which can also increase our revenues because we offer these services). Consulting. Consulting segment results are principally affected by (i) the employment levels of our clients that are mainly driven by economic conditions, (ii) governmental regulations affecting the health care market, employee benefit programs, and our clients respective industries, (iii) success in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients, (iv) our success in cross selling services across business units, and (v) managing our overall level of expenses. Insurance Underwriting. Underwriting segment revenues are affected by (i) consumer buying habits that are influenced by economic conditions, (ii) our assumption of select commercial property and casualty insurance business particularly from our managing underwriting group in our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment, (iii) competition with other underwriters (including competition based upon claims paying ratings), (iv) success in selling new policies, upselling existing policyholders and the persistency of these policies and (v) investment results. Investment income is derived primarily from our fixed maturity investments and some short term investments. These investments approximate net policy liabilities. Segment expenses are mostly benefits to policyholders that include reserve adjustments, sales commissions to agents and fees to distributors. Corporate and Other. The key driver of results in this segment has been investment income. For further information, see "Corporate and Other" in the Review by Segment section, below. Liquidity Liquidity is derived from cash flows from our business, excluding funds held on behalf of clients, and from financing and is used for capital expenditures, to repay debt, to fund acquisitions and pension obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because we are a holding company, the receipt of dividend income from our subsidiaries may be affected by their ability to pay dividends (which, in the case of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, is limited by regulatory and rating agency considerations). Tax considerations may affect access to cash generated from operations outside the United States, as can pension obligation decisions by trustees of international pension plans. 22 Executive Summary We are proud of the high quality of our services, the breath and depth of our intellectual capital and our product and service offerings, and the leading market positions that we have built. We believe our bottom line profitability, however, does not reflect the true potential of our organization. We are taking steps designed to improve margins that include: Reviewing strategic alternatives for our non core businesses, including the possible divestitures of our claims services businesses Modifying our employee benefit programs Leveraging our purchasing power with vendors, suppliers, and landlords Prudently managing employee related compensation and benefit expenses Pursuing alternative resourcing strategies, such as outsourcing, to more efficiently provide non client facing services Reviewing compensation arrangements with clients to improve the profitability of the valuable services we deliver Offering additional services to existing clients who can benefit from our wide range of resources. In 2003, consolidated revenues grew 11% to $9.8 billion driven by solid demand for our services and products, along with the positive influence of foreign exchange rates. Furthermore, Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services (previously called Insurance Brokerage and Other Services), our largest segment, exhibited good growth in most major business units. Consulting revenues rose due to the full year impact of a large outsourcing contract, but were restrained by declining employment levels at many of our clients. Our insurance underwriting business grew due to higher premiums within the warranty, credit and property & casualty lines. Our accident, health and life lines are a lower growth business, and in 2003 revenue growth was constrained by the run off of certain non core businesses in Latin America, a large employer group life book in the U.S., and a specialty book in the U.K. Our investment in Endurance Specialty stock and warrants increased our total investment income by $105 million over last year. Our pretax income from continuing operations and minority interest rose $286 million from 2002. Despite our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting margins declining, our overall pretax margin increased 190 basis points due to the increase in investment income from our investment in Endurance stock and warrants and the absence of $50 million of expenses in 2002 for the planned divestiture of our underwriting subsidiaries. We are, however, working to further improve our margins through greater financial discipline. Several factors that hurt our margins included: increased defined benefit expenses for our major pension plans of $131 million a significant decline in the pretax income of our claims services business of $48 million increased adverse loss experience in a previously reported National Program Services, Inc. (NPS) run off program of $29 million. 23 We are doing a better job of generating and managing our cash. More specifically, we: paid down more than $300 million of long term debt in 2003. At year end, our total level of debt and preferred stock outstanding was 33% of our total capitalization, which is down from 40% at the beginning of the year. made an early $100 million pension plan contribution in 2003. reduced capital expenditure spending, which was down 33% from 2002. We are targeting even lower capital expenditures in 2004 as our major investments in businesses, systems and facilities are now largely complete. reduced the amount we spent on cash acquisitions by 50% compared with 2002. Further discussion of these items may be found in the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis. KEY RECENT EVENTS Segment Reporting, Reclassification and Cost Reallocation We classify our businesses into three operating segments: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services, Consulting, and Insurance Underwriting. A fourth segment, Corporate and Other, when added to the operating segments and after eliminating intersegment revenues, totals to the amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. In 2003, certain business units were reclassified among segments. Certain administrative and marketing services relating to our insurance underwriting operations, previously included in the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment, were reclassified into the Insurance Underwriting segment. Our automotive finance servicing business, previously included in the Risk and Insurance Brokerage segment, was sold in fourth quarter 2003. Activity attributable to this business has been reflected in discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. Certain amounts in prior years consolidated financial statements relating to segments and discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2003 presentation. Also, beginning in 2003, we refined our methodology for allocating certain costs to the segments. For 2003, this revised cost allocation methodology reduced Consulting and Insurance Underwriting segment pretax income by approximately $16 million and $12 million, respectively, with the $28 million offset reflected in the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment. The revised methodology improves the assignment of costs, which are controlled on a centralized basis, to the operating segments. Run off and Discontinuance of Certain Operations We are pursuing a "back to basics" strategy in the accident and health insurance business, and focusing on core products and regions. Therefore, in February 2003, we announced that we would be placing in run off our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil. In addition, we transferred to a third party our U.S. large employer group life and accidental death insurance business via an indemnity reinsurance arrangement. These lines of business generated approximately $14 million of revenues and $6 million of pretax losses in 2003, compared to $94 million of revenues and $22 million of pretax losses in 2002. In the United Kingdom in 2003, we decided to run off certain non core special risk accident and health business. This business generated $36 million of revenue with pretax income of $4 million in 2003. For 2002, we earned revenues of $37 million, generating pretax income of approximately $6 million. 24 In third quarter 2003, we decided to sell our automotive finance servicing business, which has been in run off since first quarter 2001, and completed the sale in fourth quarter 2003 for net proceeds of approximately $18 million. Operating results from prior periods attributable to this unit have been reclassified as discontinued operations. Revenues from this business were $13 million in 2003 versus $15 million in 2002. The pretax loss recorded in 2003 of $55 million is comprised of operating losses of $32 million and a loss from the revaluation of the business of $23 million. In 2002, our pretax loss was $31 million. (See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about this discontinued operation). We are evaluating options within our portfolio of other non core businesses. In 2003, we announced that we were evaluating various strategic options for our claims services group. In early 2004, we reached an agreement in principle for the sale of two pieces of our claims services business in the U.K., and we are examining opportunities for the remaining claims units. World Trade Center To resume business operations and minimize the loss caused by the World Trade Center disaster, we secured temporary office space in Manhattan. Subsequently, we leased permanent space, and during first quarter 2003, we assigned this temporary space to another company. The 2003 costs relating to this assignment were $46 million pretax. In November 2003, we reached a final settlement of approximately $200 million for our overall World Trade Center property insurance claim and received a final cash payment of $92 million ($108 million received previously). This settlement resulted in a pretax gain of $60 million. This gain, and the $46 million expense discussed above, were combined and reported as a $14 million Unusual credit World Trade Center in the 2003 consolidated statements of income. Endurance Warrants and Common Stock Investment In December 2001, Aon, primarily through its underwriting subsidiaries, invested $227 million in Endurance Specialty Holdings, Ltd., formerly known as Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. (Endurance), a Bermuda based insurance and reinsurance company formed to provide additional underwriting capacity to commercial property and casualty insurance and reinsurance clients. As of December 31, 2003, the carrying value of our common stock investment in Endurance was $298 million, representing approximately 11.3 million shares. In conjunction with this common stock investment, we received approximately 4 million stock warrants, which allow us to purchase additional Endurance common stock through December 2011. These warrants meet the definition of a derivative as described in FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires them to be recorded in the financial statements at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each quarter. Through December 31, 2002, these warrants had been carried at zero value, which approximated their original cost. In first quarter 2003, Endurance completed its initial public offering, which provided a market value for the underlying shares and removed much of the uncertainty regarding the fair value of Endurance and the warrants. At December 31, 2003, we determined that the warrants had a fair value of approximately $80 million. This increase in value was recognized in investment income in the Corporate and Other segment. The future value of the warrants may vary considerably from the value at December 31, 2003 given the inherent volatility of the underlying shares, as well as the passage of time, and changes in other factors used in the valuation model. (See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the valuation of the warrants.) 25 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Aons consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect: what we report as our assets and liabilities what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. In accordance with our policies, we: regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those concerning revenue recognition, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves and policy and contract claim reserves), restructuring costs, retirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. base our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. The results allow us to make judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect the more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used to prepare these consolidated financial statements. Pensions U.S. Plans Effective January 1, 2004, the U.S. pension plans were closed to new entrants. All new employees will participate in a defined contribution plan. Over time, this change will reduce the volatility inherent in the accounting for the U.S. pension plans. Aon uses a market related value of assets to calculate pension expense. This value reflects a five year average of the difference between the expected return on the market related value of plan assets and the actual market value return. The prior year market related value is projected to the current date by adjusting for contributions, benefit payments and expected returns. The asset gain or loss is the difference between the expected return on assets and the actual return on assets. Twenty percent of the asset gain or loss is recognized in the current years market related value, with the remaining eighty percent spread evenly over the next four years. As of year end 2003, accumulated asset losses of $185 million have not yet been reflected in the market related value of assets. These losses will increase pension expense as they are graded into the market related asset value and may be offset by future asset gains. As of year end 2003, we reported a fair value of pension assets of $929 million. At the same point in time, the market related value of assets is $1,114 million. Under FASB Statement No. 87 accounting, the full gain or loss on assets and obligations are not recorded as expense in the current period. Statement No. 87 allows changes in the projected benefit obligation and market value of assets to be deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense over several years, based on the average expected future service of active employees, which is currently nine years. Gains and losses on pension obligations include the net effects of changes in the discount rate as well as demographic changes in the employee data. For the 2003 valuation year, the pension plans have a combined deferred loss of $496 million (comprised of unrecognized asset losses of $185 million and other than deferred asset losses of $311 million) that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. Only the other than deferred asset losses of $311 million 26 outside of a corridor, defined as 10% of the greater of the market related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation, is subject to amortization over a nine year period. For 2004, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $23 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. The investment policy for the pension plan provides for an allocation of assets to various asset classes. According to the policy, the percentage of total assets invested in each class should fall within a range. There is a target allocation for long term investment decisions. However, the range provides flexibility to accommodate prevailing market conditions. In order to determine the expected long term rate of return for the pension plan, the historical performance, investment community forecasts and current market conditions are analyzed to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plan. In setting the individual asset assumptions, the historical performance data series were weighted most heavily toward the geometric average returns. The expected returns for each asset class were then weighted by the target allocation of the plan. The expected long term rate of return assumption used to determine pension expense was 8.5%. The result of the calculation based on the actual asset allocation for year end 2003 is shown in the following table. The actual return for the 2003 valuation year (12%) was well in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Allocation Range Target Allocation Historical Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate Of Return Equities 50 80 % 70% Domestic Equities 40 70 40 10.0 % 4.0 % Limited Partnerships and Other 2 20 10 10.9 1.1 International Equities 5 15 10 10.0 1.0 Real Estate and REITs 5 15 10 9.8 1.0 Aon Common Stock 0 5 No Target 10.0 Debt Securities 20 50 30 Fixed Maturities 20 50 23 6.5 1.5 Invested Cash 2 15 7 2.5 0.2 Total 8.8 % There are several assumptions that impact the actuarial calculation of pension obligations and, in turn, net periodic pension expense in accordance with Statement No. 87. These assumptions require various degrees of judgment. The most significant assumptions are (1) the expected return on plan assets and (2) the discount rate. The same assumptions are used for Aons pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a one percentage point decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2004 pension expense and the estimated 2004 postretirement medical benefit expense by approximately $32 million and $1 million, respectively. A one percentage point increase in the estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated pension expense and the postretirement medical benefit expense for 2004 by approximately $28 million and $1 million, respectively. Similarly, holding other assumptions constant, a one percentage point decrease in Aons estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 by approximately $11 million. A one percentage point increase in the estimated long term rate of return would decrease pension expense by approximately $11 million for the same period. 27 Required cash contributions are also sensitive to assumptions, but assumptions used to determine contributions to the plan are changed infrequently. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate cash funding requirements of $28 million in 2004 and $236 million in 2005. Legislation being considered in Congress will relieve some of these requirements if passed. If so, contribution requirements are estimated to be $3 million in 2004 and $128 million in 2005. Major U.K. Plans For purposes of determining pension expense, the fair market value of plan assets is used. During 1999, the U.K. pension plans were closed to new entrants. All new employees became participants in a defined contribution plan. As with the U.S. plan, it is anticipated that this change will, over time, reduce the volatility of the accounting for U.K. pension plans. As with our other international plans, it is also important to note that the U.K. plans are solely obligations of subsidiaries of Aon Corporation. For the 2003 valuation year, the major U.K. pension plans have a combined deferred loss (from asset and liability experience) of $1,404 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. Only the accumulated loss outside of a corridor, defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation, is subject to amortization over a period of approximately 17 years. For 2004, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $63 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. Generally, the trustees of the U.K. plans determine the investment policy for each plan. In the aggregate, at the end of 2003 the plans were invested 65% in equities and 35% in fixed income securities. In determining the expected rate of return, the redemption yields available on the type of fixed income securities (corporate and U.K. government securities) used in the pension plans are reviewed. For equity returns, the expectations of the investment managers for the next 10 to 15 years are considered taking into account projected rates of future inflation and real returns. The expected long term rate of return assumption was 7.5%. With respect to U.K. pension liabilities, a one percentage point decrease in the Companys estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2004 U.K. pension expense by approximately $56 million. A one percentage point increase in the estimated discount rate would decrease the U.K. pension expense for 2004 by approximately $49 million. Similarly, a one percentage point decrease in the Companys estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the U.K. pension expense for the year ending December 31, 2004 by approximately $20 million. A one percentage point increase in the estimated long term rate of return would decrease pension expense by approximately $20 million for the same period. Cash flow requirements are also sensitive to assumptions, but assumptions used for funding the U.K. plans are changed infrequently. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate U.K. funding requirements of $144 million in 2004 and $185 million in 2005. Such contributions reflect minimum funding requirements plus such other amounts agreed to with the trustees of the U.K. plans. Dutch Plan For purposes of determining pension expense, the fair market value of plan assets is used. At the end of 2003, the Dutch pension plan has a combined deferred loss of $125 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. Only the accumulated loss outside of a corridor, defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation, is subject to amortization over a period of approximately 20 years. For 2004, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $5 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, 28 the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. The target asset allocation is 35% equities and 65% in fixed income securities, with an allowed deviation of 5%. At year end 2003, the actual asset allocation was 38% equities and 62% fixed income. The expected long term rate of return assumption is 6%, which results from an expected future return of 8% on equities and a 5% return on fixed income investments. With respect to Dutch pension liabilities, a 25 basis point decrease in the Companys estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2004 Dutch pension expense by approximately $2 million. A 25 basis point increase in the estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated Dutch pension expense for 2004 by approximately $2 million. A one percentage point decrease in the Companys estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the pension expense for the year ending December 31, 2004 by approximately $3 million, while a one percentage point increase in the estimated long term rate of return would decrease pension expense by approximately $3 million for the same period. At year end 2003, the Dutch pension plan had a prepaid pension asset of $88 million. In the future, should the funded status of the plan deteriorate, such an amount could be reflected in a minimum pension liability, thereby reducing stockholders equity. Contingencies We define as a contingency any material condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved. Under GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for contingencies when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual issue. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each matter, or changes in approach, such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. Policy Liabilities Through our insurance underwriting operations, we collect premiums from policyholders, and we establish liabilities (reserves) to pay benefits to policyholders. The liability for policy benefits, claims, and unearned premiums are some of the largest liabilities included in our statements of financial position. This liability is comprised primarily of estimated future payments to policyholders, policy and contract claims, and unearned and advance premiums and contract fees. To establish policy liabilities, we rely upon estimates for reported and anticipated claims, our historical experience, other actuarial data and, with respect to accident, health and life liabilities, assumptions on investment yields. We base interest rate assumptions on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality and interest rate assumptions are locked in when we issue new insurance policies, we may need to provide for expected losses on a product by reducing previously capitalized acquisition costs established for that product, or by establishing premium deficiency reserves if there are significant changes in our experience or assumptions. The process of estimating and establishing policy and contract liabilities is inherently uncertain and the actual ultimate cost of a claim may vary materially from the estimated amount reserved. While we made every effort to estimate these liabilities effectively, the results we report in our consolidated financial statements could be affected by trends which do not match historical experience 29 or which differ from our underlying assumptions. Furthermore, when our actual experience differs from our previous estimate, the difference will be reflected in the results we report for the period when we changed our estimate. We always consider trends in actual experience as a significant factor in helping us determine claim reserve levels. Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of acquired businesses. We classify our intangible assets as either goodwill, client lists, non compete agreements, future profits of purchased books of business of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, or other purchased intangibles. Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, while goodwill is not subject to amortization. Allocation of intangible assets between goodwill and other intangible assets and the determination of estimated useful lives are based on valuations we perform internally or that we receive from qualified independent appraisers. The calculations of these amounts are based on estimates and assumptions using historical and pro forma data and recognized valuation methods. The use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position. While goodwill is not amortized, it is subject to periodic reviews for impairment (at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). We review goodwill for impairment periodically and whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Such impairment reviews are performed at the reporting unit level with respect to goodwill. Under those circumstances, if the fair value were less than the carrying amount of the reporting unit, an indicator of impairment would exist and further analysis would be required to determine whether or not a loss would need to be charged against current period earnings. No such indicators were noted in 2003 and 2002. The determinations of impairment indicators and fair value are based on estimates and assumptions related to the amount and timing of future cash flows and future interest rates. The use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. 30  REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General In the discussion of operating results, we sometimes refer to supplemental information extracted from consolidated financial information which is not required to be presented in the financial statements by U.S. GAAP. Supplemental information related to organic revenue growth is information that management believes is an important measure to evaluate business production from existing operations. We also believe that this supplemental information is helpful to investors. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items, and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium. The supplemental organic revenue growth information does not affect net income or any other GAAP reported figures. It should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, our consolidated statements of income. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they do not make identical adjustments. Aon has offices in more than 125 countries and sovereignties. Movement of foreign exchange rates in comparison to the U.S. dollar may be significant and may distort true period to period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, management has isolated the impact of the change in currencies between periods by providing percentage changes on a comparable currency basis for revenue, and has disclosed the effect on earnings per share. Reporting on this basis gives financial statement users more meaningful information about our operations. Certain tables in the segment discussions show a reconciliation of organic revenue growth percentages to the reported revenue growth percentages for the segments and sub segments. We separately disclose the impact of foreign currency as well as the impact from acquisitions, divestitures, and transfers of business units, which represent the most significant reconciling items. Other reconciling items are generally not significant individually, or in the aggregate, and are therefore totaled in an "all other" category. If there is a significant individual reconciling item within the "all other" category, we provide additional disclosure in a footnote. 31 Summary Results for 2001 through 2003 The consolidated results of continuing operations follow: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 6,884 $ 6,187 $ 5,411 Premiums and other 2,609 2,368 2,027 Investment income 317 252 213 Total consolidated revenue 9,810 8,807 7,651 Expenses: General expenses 7,123 6,459 5,729 Benefits to policyholders 1,427 1,375 1,111 Interest expense 101 124 127 Amortization of intangible assets 63 54 158 Unusual charges (credits) World Trade Center (14 ) (29 ) 158 Total expenses 8,700 7,983 7,283 Income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest $ 1,110 $ 824 $ 368 Pretax margin continuing operations 11.3 % 9.4 % 4.8 % Consolidated Results for 2003 Compared to 2002 Revenue In 2003, revenue increased 11% over 2002 to $9.8 billion. We saw improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, premiums earned, and investment income. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenue increased 6%. We do not directly hedge revenues against foreign currency translation because it is not cost effective, but we do attempt to mitigate the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on pretax income through hedging strategies. Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 % of Total 2002 % of Total 2001 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 5,211 53 % $ 5,019 57 % $ 4,438 58 % United Kingdom 1,835 19 1,621 18 1,390 18 Continent of Europe 1,469 15 1,117 13 938 12 Rest of World 1,295 13 1,050 12 885 12 Total revenue $ 9,810 100 % $ 8,807 100 % $ 7,651 100 % U.S. consolidated revenue, which represents 53% of total revenue, increased 4% in 2003 compared to 2002, as a result of growth driven: primarily by new business development and improved retention rates in both retail and reinsurance brokerage. secondarily by revenue gains in the Consulting segment as the result of a large outsourcing contract that began in third quarter 2002. These gains were partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our Accident & Health and Life sub segment that was primarily from transferring our 32 U.S. large employer group life and accidental death business to a third party via an indemnity reinsurance arrangement. While moderating, commercial property and casualty premium rate increases for most lines of coverage continued in 2003. As a broker, we benefit from this through increased commissions. In addition, client demand for risk retention programs and services contributed to this increase, especially reinsurance and wholesale brokerage. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue combined increased 21% to $3.3 billion and Rest of World revenue increased 23%, reflecting a positive impact from foreign exchange, strong new business, and increasing premium and retention rates. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 11% to $6.9 billion as a result of: the growth in new business improved renewal rates for most of our businesses the weakening U.S. dollar higher revenue from a large consulting segment outsourcing contract begun in third quarter 2002. Premiums and other, primarily related to insurance underwriting operations, improved to $2.6 billion, a 10% increase over 2002. The increase reflects growth in some warranty and credit programs, along with specialty property and casualty lines, and favorable foreign exchange rates. Investment income increased by 26% over 2002, and includes related expenses and income or loss on disposals and impairments. The net increase reflects: lower impairment write downs in 2003 of $36 million compared with $130 million last year. 2002 impairment write downs included a $51 million cumulative adjustment related to prior reporting periods. a non cash increase in the value of Endurance stock warrants of $80 million and equity earnings from our investment in Endurance common stock of $46 million. Equity earnings from our Endurance investment in 2002 were $21 million. investment income in 2002 included interest on a tax related settlement of $48 million with no corresponding amount in 2003. lower investment income generated by the operating units of $81 million, including $27 million on deposit type contracts, reflecting lower rates. Expenses Total expenses increased $717 million or 9% over 2002. General expenses increased 10% over 2002, reflecting: growth of the businesses the effect of foreign exchange rates higher overall defined benefit pension plan costs of $131 million for our major plans. General expenses in 2002 included $50 million of costs from the planned divestiture of the insurance underwriting segment and a credit of $6 million reflecting the reversal of termination benefits previously incurred as part of the business transformation plan. 33 Benefits to policyholders rose $52 million, or 4%, primarily as the result of new business volume, and losses and reserve strengthening of $65 million related to NPS, a non core book of runoff business. NPS was hired to handle quoting, binding, premium collection, claims adjusting, and other servicing related to general liability insurance policies issued by one of Aons subsidiaries. We stopped NPS from initiating any new business on our behalf in mid 2002 after we obtained a temporary restraining order. We and others sued NPS for fraud, among other things. Benefit payout ratios have declined, however, due to a shift in product mix. Interest expense was down primarily due to lower debt levels. Amortization of intangible assets grew $9 million from 2002 due primarily to the impact of recent acquisitions as well as foreign exchange rates in the risk and insurance brokerage services segment. Total expenses also included a $14 million credit in 2003 and a $29 million credit in 2002 related to the World Trade Center. The 2003 credit represents a $60 million gain from a final settlement of our World Trade Center property insurance claim, net of $46 million related to the assignment to a third party of temporary office space secured in Manhattan after the World Trade Center was destroyed. The 2002 credit represents a gain resulting from a settlement with our insurance carriers regarding reimbursement for depreciable assets destroyed. Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest increased $286 million in 2003 to $1.1 billion. Contributing to this increase were the impact of foreign exchange, the improvement in investment income ($65 million) and 2002 expenses related to the planned spin off ($50 million) with no corresponding amount in 2003. Approximately 67% of Aons 2003 consolidated income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest was from international operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 37% in both 2003 and 2002. The overall effective tax rate is higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income taxes. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased to $663 million ($2.08 per dilutive share) from $486 million ($1.71 per dilutive share) in 2002. Basic income from continuing operations per share was $2.08 and $1.72 for 2003 and 2002, respectively. In the fourth quarter 2002, we had a common stock offering, which increased the number of average common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding. After netting the effect of currency hedges, the positive impact of foreign currency translations was approximately $0.13 per share. We have deducted dividends paid for the redeemable preferred stock from net income to compute income per share. Discontinued Operations After tax losses from our discontinued automotive finance servicing business in 2003 were $35 million ($0.11 per both basic and dilutive share). In comparison, losses in 2002 from this discontinued operation were $20 million ($0.07 per both basic and dilutive share). The 2003 results include an after tax loss on the revaluation of the automotive finance servicing business of $14 million. Discontinued operations also include certain insurance underwriting subsidiaries acquired with Alexander and Alexander Services, Inc. (A&A) that are in run off and the indemnification by A&A of certain liabilities relating to subsidiaries sold by A&A before its acquisition by Aon. There was no income statement impact from these discontinued operations in 2003, 2002 or 2001. 34 Based on current estimates, management believes that these discontinued operations are adequately reserved. The net liability is included as a component of other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position. In 2003 and 2002, Aon settled some of these liabilities. The settlements had no material effect on our consolidated financial statements. (See notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on discontinued operations.) Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2003 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2002 Total revenues in the quarter rose 10% to $2.6 billion. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, revenue climbed 4%. The higher revenue is primarily due to: very good results from the international risk and insurance brokerage area, combined with improvement in U.S. brokerage and reinsurance growth in new business and improved renewal rates growth in some warranty and credit programs, along with specialty property and casualty lines increased investment income in the Corporate and Other segment, reflecting the change in value of warrants we held in Endurance of $16 million. Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest increased by $56 million or 19% over 2002. Both this and last years results include settlements for various World Trade Center claims. The net change year over year for these settlements increased pretax income in 2003 by $49 million. This income growth was partially offset by: an increase in costs for our major defined benefit pension plans, which increased the expense for the quarter by $34 million a net charge in the warranty, credit, and property and casualty sub segment of $44 million for additional losses and reserve strengthening for the NPS run off program. Consolidated Results for 2002 Compared to 2001 Revenue Total revenues were $8.8 billion, an increase of 15%. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange rates, revenues increased 14% over the comparable period. This increase results from improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, premiums earned, and investment income. U.S. revenues, which represent 57% of total revenue, increased 13% in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of strong organic growth resulting from: commercial property and casualty premium rate increases client demand for risk retention programs and services. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues combined increased 18% to $2.7 billion and Rest of World revenue increased 19%, reflecting strong new business and increasing premium rates, which increase commissions, and foreign exchange. Brokerage commissions and fees increased 14% to $6.2 billion, primarily from organic growth including increased premium rates, increased new business, and outsourcing contracts. This growth was offset somewhat by revenue disruptions in the early part of the year with our managing general underwriter unit. Acquisitions contributed $90 million of incremental revenue in 2002. 35 Premiums and other increased 17% in 2002 to $2.4 billion. This increase primarily reflects growth in new business initiatives, traditional accident and health lines, and new specialty property and casualty lines. This increase was somewhat offset by the prior loss of some accounts in the warranty business. Investment income increased by 18% over 2001, despite a drop in interest rates. The increase was driven by: improved returns on limited partnerships and other private equity investments accounted for on the equity method in 2002 $48 million of interest income received from the settlement of a prior year tax issue. These improvements were offset by impairment write downs for certain directly owned investments, including those classified as other than temporary, which were $73 million higher than the prior year. Investment income from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments, primarily relating to funds held on behalf of clients, decreased $49 million compared to 2001, largely due to declining interest rates. Expenses General expenses increased 13% over 2001 reflecting: growth of the businesses higher costs in the U.S. retail brokerage business increased risk management and litigation reserve items higher overall pension plan costs costs related to the planned spin off. Benefits to policyholders rose $264 million or 24% due to new business volume increases, an increased payout ratio of benefits to policyholders versus net premiums earned, issues related to NPS and a shift in business mix to products with higher benefit payout ratios. Interest expense was down slightly due to lower short term interest rates. Amortization of intangible assets declined $104 million from 2001 as goodwill was not amortized in 2002 in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142. Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest increased significantly from $368 million in 2001 to $824 million in 2002. This increase is due primarily to the net change in expenses related to the World Trade Center ($187 million), the business transformation plan ($224 million) and the improvement in Corporate and Other revenue ($150 million). Approximately 76% of Aons 2002 consolidated income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest was from international operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 39.5% for 2001 and 37% for 2002. The decline from 2001 was due to the non deductibility of certain goodwill, which, beginning in 2002, is no longer amortized for book purposes. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions. 36 Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased to $486 million ($1.71 per dilutive share) from $183 million ($0.66 per dilutive share) in 2001. Basic income from continuing operations per share was $1.72 and $0.67 for 2002 and 2001, respectively. To compute income per share, we have deducted dividends paid for the redeemable preferred stock from net income. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services, Consulting, and Insurance Underwriting. (See note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.) Aons operating segments are identified as those that: report separate financial information are evaluated regularly when we are deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. We attribute revenues to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. Segment revenue includes investment income, as well as the impact of related derivatives, generated by operating invested assets of that segment. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective segments: Our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting businesses invest funds held on behalf of clients and operating funds in short term obligations In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. Investments underlying interest sensitive capital accumulation insurance liabilities are fixed or floating rate fixed maturity obligations. For this business segment, operating invested assets are approximately equal to average net policy liabilities. Our insurance subsidiaries also have invested assets that exceed net policy liabilities in order to maintain solid claims paying ratings. Income from these investments are reflected in Corporate and Other segment revenues. 37 The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Operating segment revenue: (1) Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 5,677 $ 4,973 $ 4,363 Consulting 1,193 1,054 938 Insurance Underwriting 2,883 2,801 2,521 Income before income tax: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 829 $ 791 $ 565 Consulting 108 120 126 Insurance Underwriting 196 155 168 Pretax margins: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services 14.6 % 15.9 % 12.9 % Consulting 9.1 % 11.4 % 13.4 % Insurance Underwriting 6.8 % 5.5 % 6.7 % (1)Intersegment revenues of $68 million were eliminated in 2003. See note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Aon is a leader in many sectors of the insurance industry: globally, it is the second largest insurance broker, the largest reinsurance broker and the leading manager of captive insurance companies worldwide. In the U.S., Aon is the largest wholesale broker and underwriting manager. These rankings are based on the most recent surveys compiled and reports printed by Business Insurance. The devastation caused by the attacks of September 11, 2001 resulted in the largest insurance loss in history. At the same time, there was an unprecedented escalation of insurance premium rates because of larger than anticipated loss experience across most risks, the stock markets steep decline, lower interest rates, and diminished risk capacity. Higher premium rates, or a "hard market," generally result in increased commission revenues. Changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry, as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds. However, it is difficult to predict the longevity of the hard market, and the rate of increase in premiums in the property and casualty marketplace has already begun to level off. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services generated approximately 58% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2003. Revenues are generated primarily through: commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies fees paid by clients certain other carrier compensation interest income on funds held on behalf of clients. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of: how our clients policy renewals are timed the net effect of new and lost business the timing of services provided to our clients 38 the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short term interest rates. With the exception of employee incentives, expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. Our retail brokerage companies operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with a large number of retail insurance brokerage and agency firms, as well as individual brokers and agents and direct writers of insurance coverage. Specifically, this segment: addresses the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of professional groups, insurance companies, service businesses, governments, healthcare providers, commercial organizations and non profit groups, among others provides affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations and businesses provides wholesale brokerage, managing underwriting and premium finance services to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients offers claims management and loss cost management services to insurance companies and firms with self insurance programs provides actuarial, loss prevention and administrative services to businesses and consumers. We review our product revenue results using the following sub segments: Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage Americas (Brokerage Americas) encompasses our retail and wholesale brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement and captive management services, and premium finance services in North and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage International (Brokerage International) offers similar products and services to the rest of the world not identified above. Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services (Reinsurance) offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that: enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios improve capital utilization evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide. Claim Services (Claims) offers claims administration and loss cost management services. The Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment revenues are influenced by the premiums paid by clients to insurers because we receive a percentage of the premiums as a commission in most cases. The availability of insurance coverage can also affect our revenues. If insurance coverage cannot be placed, we do not receive a commission. 39  Revenue Total 2003 Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue was $5.7 billion, up 14% on a reported basis over last year. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenue rose 8% over last year. Operating revenue, on an organic basis, grew approximately 9% in a very competitive environment. Investment income decreased $34 million in 2003 from reduced derivative gains and lower interest rates. Continuing the trend from last year, increases in insurance premium rates benefited revenues in 2003. After September 11, 2001 insurance markets, whose premium rates were rising already, rose further as a result of restrictions on the availability of some coverages and the pressure on the financial strength of some insurance companies. The property and casualty insurance market is very competitive. As premium rates rise, clients often retain more risk. This dynamic has, and may continue to, limit revenue growth for pure brokerage services, but it provides opportunities to offer more captive insurance and claims management services, as well as safety and loss control services. This chart details Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage Americas $ 2,299 $ 2,106 $ 1,920 Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage International 2,074 1,695 1,413 Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services 902 790 668 Claims Services 402 382 362 Total revenue $ 5,677 $ 4,973 $ 4,363 This chart reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth. Year ended December 31, 2003 vs. 2002 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage Americas 9 % 1 % % (1 )% 9 % Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage International 22 13 (2 ) 11 Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services 14 5 (1 ) 10 Claims Services 5 3 1 1 Total revenue 14 % 6 % % (1 )% 9 % Brokerage Americas revenue improved due to organic growth, reflecting improved renewal rates and increased new business in the retail brokerage business. Organic growth in the wholesale business was under pressure due to pricing pressures. Brokerage International revenue showed strong improvement as a result of a favorable foreign exchange impact and strong organic growth. Reinsurance revenue growth reflected strong results in U.S. reinsurance, driven by new business from existing clients and growth in renewal volumes, along with moderate growth internationally, as well as a favorable foreign exchange impact. Claims revenue has increased over last year primarily as a result of a positive foreign exchange impact and higher U.K. volume. 40 This chart shows Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,471 $ 2,368 $ 2,177 United Kingdom 1,172 1,055 890 Continent of Europe 1,112 849 726 Rest of World 922 701 570 Total revenue $ 5,677 $ 4,973 $ 4,363 Income before income tax $ 829 $ 791 $ 565 U.S. revenue has shown a modest increase over 2002. The U.S. reinsurance business posted strong improvement as a result of new business and high renewal volumes. The managing underwriting group has recovered from very depressed results in the prior year. U.S. retail brokerage grew during the year, driven primarily by new business development and improved renewal rates. These increases, however, were partially offset by a decline in claims services revenue. U.K. and Continent of Europe revenue increased primarily as a result of foreign exchange rates and organic revenue growth that reflected new business and good renewal rates. Rest of World revenue increased significantly due to foreign exchange rates, increased market share primarily in the Asian markets, and new business initiatives. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income increased $38 million or 5% from 2002 to $829 million. The improvement in income was realized by the growth in revenues as well as a revised cost methodology which decreased centrally allocated costs by $28 million. In 2003, pretax margins in this segment were 14.6%, down from 15.9% in 2002. Our income and margins were impacted this year by: additional pension expense of $109 million a decline in claims services pretax income of $48 million a decline in investment income of $34 million. In addition, some events did not hurt our income in 2003, but did affect our year over year comparison. These events include: $29 million from a partial settlement in 2002 with Aons insurance carriers related to the World Trade Center a $6 million credit for the reversal in 2002 of business transformation plan expenses previously incurred for termination benefits with no corresponding amounts in 2003. Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. This segment: provides a full range of human capital management services from employee benefits to compensation consulting 41 generated 12% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2003. Consulting services are delivered to corporate clients through five major practice areas: 1.Employee Benefits advises clients regarding the structure, funding and administration of employee benefit programs which attract, retain and motivate employees. 2.Compensation focuses on designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option and other pay structures, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries. 3.Management Consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development, and change management. 4.Communications advises clients on how to communicate initiatives that support their corporate vision. 5.Human Resource Outsourcing offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration, and other employment related services. Revenues in the Consulting segment are affected by changes in clients industries, including government regulation, as well as new products and services, the state of the economic cycle, broad trends in employee demographics and the management of large organizations. Revenue In 2003, revenues of $1.2 billion increased 13% over 2002. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, the growth rate was 9%. Revenue on an organic basis grew 5% from last year. The organic revenue growth resulted from: growth in U.S. compensation and international practices the full year impact of a sizable human resources outsourcing agreement. In third quarter 2002, Aon entered into a sizeable new outsourcing contract with AT&T that is expected to provide favorable returns over the life of the multi year agreement. The recognition of revenues and expenses, however, will significantly influence financial results over the contract period. Revenues are recorded on a gross basis, inclusive of amounts ultimately passed through to subcontractors, and are recorded ratably over the life of the contract. Up front investment costs to support the new business cause pretax margins to be significantly lower in the early years of the multi year contract, compared with the later years when margins are expected to increase. A significant portion of the up front investment costs incurred for the new outsourcing contracts can be leveraged to handle increased business volume. This chart details Consulting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Benefits, compensation, management and communications consulting $ 898 $ 796 $ 740 Human resource outsourcing 295 258 198 Total revenue $ 1,193 $ 1,054 $ 938 42 This chart reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth. Year ended December 31, 2003 vs. 2002 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Benefits, compensation, management and communications consulting 13 % 5 % 4 % 4 % Human resource outsourcing 14 2 3 9 Total revenue 13 % 4 % 4 % 5 % The increase in benefits, compensation, management and communication consulting revenue was driven by positive foreign exchange rates and organic revenue growth in U.S. compensation and benefits and international practices. This increase was partially offset by a decline in management consulting. Human resource outsourcing revenue improvement was due to the large contract initiated in third quarter 2002. This chart shows Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 770 $ 703 $ 628 United Kingdom 182 160 157 Continent of Europe 139 105 77 Rest of World 102 86 76 Total revenue $ 1,193 $ 1,054 $ 938 Income before income tax $ 108 $ 120 $ 126 U.S. revenue posted a strong increase in 2003, primarily reflecting the human resources outsourcing agreement initiated in third quarter 2002. U.K., Continent of Europe and Rest of World revenues rose on favorable currency exchange impacts and organic revenue growth. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income was $108 million, a 10% decline from last year. In 2003, pretax margins in this segment were 9.1%, down from 11.4% in 2002. Margins in this segment were reduced by: a revised cost allocation methodology, resulting in higher expense allocations of $16 million over 2002 increased pension and insurance costs a non recurring stock based expense adjustment. The pretax margins for 2003 were also influenced by a lower margin human resources outsourcing contract, as discussed above. 43 Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment: provides supplemental accident, health and life insurance coverage mostly through direct distribution networks, primarily through more than 7,600 career insurance agents working for our subsidiaries. Our revenues are affected by our success in attracting and retaining these career agents. The agency force turnover has remained fairly stable over time. The sales management team is a strength that enables the recruiting model to remain effective. provides supplemental Medicare policies in the U.S. through a dedicated sales force offers extended warranty and credit insurance products that are sold through retailers, automotive dealers, insurance agents and brokers, and real estate brokers. Our revenues are also affected by the addition and retention of these retailers, dealers, agents and brokers. offers select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis through managing general underwriters, primarily Aon owned companies provides the administration of certain extended warranty services on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and appliances has operations in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific generated approximately 30% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2003. In the accident, health and life operations, we provide an array of accident, sickness, short term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations, and are not subject to escalating medical cost inflation. We have: developed relationships with select brokers and consultants to reach specific niche markets expanded product distribution to include direct response programs, affinity groups, and worksite marketing, which has created access to new markets and potential new policyholders implemented a "back to basics" strategy, focusing on products and regions with predictable cash flows and the best return on investment announced plans in February 2003 to place in run off our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Latin America. We stopped operations in Argentina and have transitioned into run off status in Brazil and Mexico during 2003. transferred the large employer group life and accidental death business to a third party via an indemnity reinsurance arrangement decided to run off certain non core special risk accident and health business in the U.K. Our warranty and credit subsidiaries in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific provide warranties on automobiles and a variety of consumer goods, including electronics and appliances. In addition, we provide non structural home warranties and other warranty products, such as credit card enhancements and affinity warranty programs. Revenue Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth in this segment; however, reported revenues reflect earned premiums. 44 A table reflecting written and earned premiums and associated reserves follows: 2003 2002 Written premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,460 $ 1,519 Warranty and Credit 986 828 Property & Casualty 221 164 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,207 992 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,667 $ 2,511 Earned premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,502 $ 1,494 Warranty and Credit 830 733 Property & Casualty 217 133 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,047 866 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,549 $ 2,360 Policy and Contract Claims: Accident & Health $ 447 $ 421 Warranty and Credit 207 177 Property & Casualty 955 653 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,162 830 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 1,609 $ 1,251 In 2003, revenues of $2.9 billion increased 3% over 2002. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenues were flat year over year. This chart details Insurance Underwriting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Accident & health and life $ 1,594 $ 1,639 $ 1,429 Warranty, credit and property & casualty 1,289 1,162 1,092 Total revenue $ 2,883 $ 2,801 $ 2,521 This chart reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth. Year ended December 31, 2003 vs. 2002 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other (1) Organic Revenue Growth Accident & health and life (3 )% 3 % (4 )% (2 )% % Warranty, credit and property & casualty 11 3 (10 ) 18 Total revenue 3 % 3 % (2 )% (6 )% 8 % (1)The difference between written and earned premiums and fees, as a percentage change, was 0% for accident & health, (2)% for warranty and (1)% for total revenue. The change in warranty and total revenue also resulted from a one time assumption of premiums ceded from a clients captive in 2002. 45 Revenue declined in accident & health and life for 2003 primarily due to our decision to: pursue a "back to basics" strategy in the core businesses run off the accident and health insurance underwriting operations in the Latin American countries and to transfer our U.S. large employer group life business. These businesses generated approximately $14 million of revenues and $6 million of pretax losses in 2003 compared to $94 million in revenues and $22 million of pretax losses in 2002. We are exiting these businesses and expect to completely withdraw in 2005. We also decided to run off certain non core special risk accident and health business in the U.K. Growth in the select property and casualty business, as well European credit and warranty programs, drove the revenue improvement in warranty, credit and property & casualty. Overall core business growth was partially offset by: a decline in investment income of $47 million, significantly impacted by a $27 million decline in interest earned on investments underlying deposit type contracts, as that business has been placed in run off overall lower interest rates. This chart details Insurance Underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 1,953 $ 2,005 $ 1,838 United Kingdom 460 395 330 Continent of Europe 211 159 132 Rest of World 259 242 221 Total revenue $ 2,883 $ 2,801 $ 2,521 Income before income taxes $ 196 $ 155 $ 168 In 2003, U.S. revenue declined primarily as a result of the runoff of our U.S. large employer group life and accidental death business. U.K., Continent of Europe, and Rest of World posted significant revenue improvement during the year. This increase is primarily the result of a favorable currency exchange rate impact and organic revenue growth in European direct sales, warranty and credit operations. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income of $196 million increased 26% from 2002. Pretax margins rose from 5.5% in 2002 to 6.8% in 2003. Increased pretax income and margin resulted from: higher expenses and charges concerning the planned divestiture of the Insurance Underwriting segment of $33 million in 2002, with no corresponding amounts in 2003 improved profitability in the traditional lines of accident & health and life provision for non claims litigation issues of $15 million in 2002, with no corresponding amount in 2003 reduced losses in Europe warranty and improvements in property & casualty, excluding NPS. 46 These increases were partially offset by: charges related to losses and reserve strengthening for the NPS run off program, which were $65 million in 2003 versus a $36 million charge in 2002 a revised cost allocation methodology, which resulted in increased expense allocations of $12 million for 2003. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other segment revenue consists primarily of investment income (including income or loss on disposals, including other than temporary impairment losses), which is not otherwise reflected in the operating segments. This segment includes: invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting businesses the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries and related income. Corporate and Other segment revenue includes income from Endurance common stock, accounted for under the equity method, and changes in the valuation of Endurance warrants. Aon carries its investment in Endurance warrants at fair value and records changes in the fair value through Corporate and Other segment revenue, in accordance with FASB Statement No. 133. Private equities are principally carried at cost except where Aon has significant influence, in which case they are carried under the equity method. These investments usually do not pay dividends. Limited partnerships (LP) are accounted for under the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying LP investments flow through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Because the LP investments include exchange traded securities, Corporate and Other segment revenue fluctuates with the market values of underlying publicly traded equity investments. LP investments have historically provided higher returns over a longer time than broad market common stock. However, in the short run, the returns are inherently more variable. In December 2001, we securitized $450 million of our LP investments plus associated LP commitments, which represented the majority of our LP interests. This transaction has lessened the variability of revenue reported in this segment. (See note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the securitization.) Although our portfolios are highly diversified, they still remain exposed to market, equity, and credit risk. We: periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairments. analyze various risk factors and determine if any specific asset impairments exist. If we determine there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value. review invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. (See note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding other than temporary impairments.) 47 This chart shows the components of Corporate and Other revenue and expenses: (millions) Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Revenue: Income from marketable equity securities and other investments $ 137 $ 31 $ 7 Limited partnership investments 1 14 (94 ) Interest on tax refund 48 Net loss on disposals and related expenses (13 ) (114 ) (84 ) Total revenue $ 125 $ (21 ) $ (171 ) Expenses: General expenses $ 61 $ 97 $ 75 Interest expense 101 124 127 Amortization of goodwill 118 Unusual credits World Trade Center (14 ) Total expenses 148 221 320 Loss before income tax $ (23 ) $ (242 ) $ (491 ) Revenue Corporate and Other revenue improved by $146 million to $125 million in 2003. The revenue improvement was primarily driven by: an $80 million non cash increase in the value of the Endurance stock warrants equity earnings from the Endurance common stock investment of $46 million compared to $21 million in 2002 lower impairment writedowns of certain fixed maturity and equity investments of $36 million in 2003 versus $130 million in 2002 (including $51 million cumulative effect of the change in policy relating to prior periods). These positive comparisons were somewhat offset by $48 million of interest on a tax settlement in 2002 with no comparable amount in 2003. Loss Before Income Tax Corporate and Other expenses were $148 million, an improvement of $73 million from the comparable period in 2002. This improvement is the result of: a decline in interest expense of $23 million primarily from the paydown of both long term and short term debt. As a result of the adoption of FIN 46 on December 31, 2003, we increased our notes payable balance by $726 million for subordinated debt owed to Aon Capital A, which was deconsolidated effective December 31, 2003. There was no effect on net income in 2003 as a result of this deconsolidation. However, beginning in 2004, the interest on this subordinated debt, previously reflected as Minority interest, net of tax on the consolidated statements of income will be shown as interest expense. (See notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.) a decline in general expenses of $36 million due in part to $17 million of 2002 overhead costs for the previous planned divestiture of the underwriting businesses with no corresponding 2003 amount 48 a net $14 million credit related to the World Trade Center. To allow us to resume business operations and minimize the loss caused by the disaster, we secured temporary office space in Manhattan. Later, we leased permanent space, and during first quarter 2003, we assigned this temporary space to another company. The costs related to this assignment were $46 million pretax. In fourth quarter 2003, we reached a final settlement of approximately $200 million for our overall World Trade Center property insurance claim. We received a cash payment of approximately $92 million during the fourth quarter, in addition to the $108 million we had already collected. As a result, we recognized a $60 million pretax gain on this settlement. These revenue and expense comparisons contributed to the overall Corporate and Other pretax loss of $23 million in 2003 versus a loss of $242 million in 2002. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Our routine liquidity needs are primarily for servicing debt and paying dividends on outstanding stock. Our primary source for meeting these requirements is from dividends and internal financing from our operating subsidiaries. After meeting our routine dividend and debt servicing requirements, we used a portion of the remaining funding we received throughout the year for capital expenditures, made an early $100 million U.S. pension plan contribution and invested in acquisitions. Our major U.S. insurance subsidiaries statutory capital and surplus at year end 2003 exceeded the risk based capital target set by the NAIC by a satisfactory level. In 2003, in order to enhance their financial position, we did not dividend any of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries earnings to Aon parent company. During the past year, the statutory capital and surplus of the total underwriting companies has improved substantially. We anticipate that dividend payments to Aon parent company will resume in 2004 from CICA, our major insurance subsidiary. (Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements discusses regulatory restrictions relating to dividend capacity of our insurance subsidiaries.) In the aggregate, our operating subsidiaries anticipate that there will be adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. We have used cash flow primarily for debt reduction, dividend payments, business reinvestment, and acquisition financing. We expect our subsidiaries positive cash flow to continue, and with it, our ability to access adequate short term lines of credit. Cash on our statements of financial position includes funds available for general corporate purposes and funds we are holding on behalf of clients and to satisfy policyholder liabilities. In 2003, total cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans were $217 million, an increase of $141 million over 2002. This exceeded the original expectation due to an early contribution of $100 million to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in fourth quarter 2003. No corresponding early contributions were made in 2002. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate that 2004 contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans will be approximately $195 million. However, legislation being considered by the U.S. Congress will relieve some of these requirements, if passed. If so, we expect our 2004 contributions to our major defined benefit plans will be approximately $170 million. In connection with one of our U.K. pension plans, our principal U.K. subsidiary has agreed with the trustees of the plan to contribute &pound;20 million per year to the plan for six years with the amount payable increasing by 5.3% on each January 1, commencing in 2005. These contributions are in addition to the normal employer contributions to the plan. The trustees of the plan have certain rights to request that our U.K. subsidiary advance an amount equal to an actuarially determined winding up 49 deficit. In practice, the trustees have accepted the agreed schedule of contributions and have not requested such an advance. As of December 31, 2002, the estimated winding up deficit was &pound;340 million. The winding up deficit has not yet been determined as of December 31, 2003. At the last valuation date, September 30, 2003, the estimated deficit between the value of the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation, calculated under U.S. GAAP, was &pound;134 million, of which &pound;125 million was recorded as a minimum pension liability. In 1999, all U.K. pension plans were closed to new entrants. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations represent the net income we earned in the reported periods adjusted for non cash revenue and charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for 2003 were $1.3 billion, however, not all of these funds were available for use by us. The operating cash flow from our insurance subsidiaries of approximately $360 million was not available for general corporate purposes in 2003. To enhance their financial position, we decided not to dividend in 2003 any of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries earnings to the Aon parent company. Also included in the $360 million was a $305 million change in operating assets and liabilities of the underwriting segment, net of reinsurance, primarily from unearned premiums and other fees. These funds will be used to satisfy future benefits to policyholders with the remainder being available, after taxes and other income and expense, to dividend to Aon parent company in future years. In our risk and insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, we collect cash payments from clients that include both premiums (payable to insurance companies for policies they issue) and commissions and fees (payable to us for our brokerage and consulting services). We record the commissions and fees as income and we hold clients premiums for a short time before remitting them to insurers. The net increase in funds held on behalf of clients was approximately $200 million in 2003. The net balance for these funds is reflected in "Other receivables and liabilities net" in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Proceeds of $48 million from the sale of operations included $30 million from the divestiture of Sheffield, which was sold for approximately book value. In 2003, available cash flows from operations were used primarily to: pay down debt of $385 million pay cash dividends of $190 million provide for capital expenditures of $185 million fund acquisitions of $56 million. Included in cash flows from operations are cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans of $217 million versus expense of $187 million. 50 Financial Condition Since year end 2002, total assets increased $1.7 billion to $27 billion. In 2003, total investments increased $738 million to $7.3 billion from December 31, 2002. Fixed maturities increased $662 million, primarily relating to an asset management program at our insurance underwriting subsidiaries that became effective in second quarter 2003, which resulted in a shift from short term to long term investments. As a consequence of this decision, short term investments in the insurance underwriting businesses decreased, but were offset by changes in foreign exchange rates, along with an increase in funds held on behalf of clients, resulting in an overall decline of $20 million. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting receivables increased $177 million in 2003. Corresponding insurance premiums payable increased $464 million over the same period. These increases reflect: the effect of foreign exchange rates the timing of receipts and payments the continued rise in premium rates across most lines of business escalating client demand for risk programs Aons overall new account growth. Other assets increased $90 million from December 31, 2002. Other assets are comprised principally of prepaid premiums related to reinsurance, prepaid pension assets, and in 2002, assets of discontinued operations related to our automotive finance servicing business. Policy liabilities in total, excluding other policyholder funds, increased $703 million, which were principally offset by corresponding increases in reinsurance receivables (reflected in other receivables) and prepaid premiums related to reinsurance. Other policyholder funds decreased $81 million from 2002 due primarily to interest sensitive and deposit type contracts maturing and our decision to stop offering these programs. Our minimum defined benefit pension liability, included in other liabilities, increased $262 million since last year end. We are required to maintain at plan level, at a minimum, a liability equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. Investments We invest in broad asset categories related to our diversified operations. In managing our investments, our objective is to maximize earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks and regulatory requirements. We maintain well capitalized operating companies. The financial strength of these companies permits a diversified investment portfolio including invested cash, fixed income obligations, public and private equities and limited partnerships. The Corporate and Other segment contains invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income. These insurance assets, which are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and limited partnerships, represent a more aggressive investment strategy that gives us an opportunity for greater returns with longer term investments. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies: are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies 51 are unavailable for other uses such as debt reduction or share repurchases without considering regulatory requirements. (See note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.) In December 2001, we securitized $450 million of our LP investments and associated LP commitments, which represented most of our limited partnership investments, via a sale of PEPS I. The securitization: gives our underwriting subsidiaries greater liquidity has lessened the revenue variability in the Corporate and Other segment. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our investments. Borrowings Total debt at December 31, 2003 was $2.1 billion, up $360 million from December 31, 2002. Specifically: Notes payable increased by $424 million compared to year end 2002. This increase: is primarily due to deconsolidating our mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities as a result of FIN 46 (see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion), which resulted in increasing our notes payable balance by $726 million was partially offset by retiring $300 million of outstanding debt securities due in January and June 2003. Short term debt declined $64 million, primarily due to a decrease in foreign short term debt. In January 2004, we also retired the balance of our 6.3% debt securities ($89 million), which had become due. Contractual maturities of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2002, we completed an offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% convertible senior debentures due 2012. The debentures are unsecured obligations and are convertible into our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $21.475 per common share under certain circumstances including the following: During any fiscal quarter if the closing price of our common stock exceeds 120% of the conversion price (i.e. $25.77) for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the previous fiscal quarter. Or Subject to certain exceptions, during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the debentures for each day of the ten trading day period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale price of our common stock and the number of shares issuable upon conversion of $1,000 principal amount of the debentures. Aon has reserved approximately 14 million shares for the potential conversion of these debentures. We received approximately $223 million by privately placing $225 million aggregate principal amount of 7.375% senior notes due 2012 in fourth quarter 2002. In May 2003, we completed an offer to exchange these notes for notes registered under the Securities Act of 1933 that have identical terms. 52 In 2002, we renegotiated our back up lines of credit. Anticipating the spin off of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries, we reduced our line of credit to $875 million. As a result of our capital enhancement actions, we renegotiated our short term back up lines of credit, reducing the total amount to $775 million in February 2003. The agreement expires in 2005. In fourth quarter 2002, the credit rating agencies lowered the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper. On October 31, 2002, Moodys Investors Service lowered its rating of our senior debt to the current rating of "Baa2" from "Baa1." Moodys also placed the rating of our senior debt and the "P 2" rating of our commercial paper under review for possible future downgrade, which it subsequently removed without change. Also on October 31, 2002, Standard & Poors Ratings Services placed its "A " rating of our senior debt on CreditWatch with negative implications, which it subsequently removed without change. On August 31, 2003, Standard & Poors revised its outlook on our senior debt from stable to negative. A further downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper would increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. Any such further downgrade may trigger a further obligation of our company to fund an aggregate of up to $75 million with respect to our premium finance securitizations. Moreover, some of our debt instruments, such as our 6.20% notes due January 2007 ($250 million of which are outstanding), expressly provide for interest rate increases in the case of certain ratings downgrades. Similarly, any such downgrade would increase our commercial paper interest rates or may result in our inability to access the commercial paper market altogether. If we cannot access the commercial paper market, although we have committed backup lines in excess of our current outstanding commercial paper borrowings, we cannot assure you that it would not adversely affect our financial position. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt may also adversely affect the claims paying ability or financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. The major rating agencies ratings of our debt securities at December 31, 2003 appear in the table below. Standard and Poors outlook on Aon is negative. Ratings from Moodys Investor Services and Fitch, Inc. are on stable outlook. Standard And Poors Moodys Investor Services Fitch, Inc. Senior long term debt A Baa2 A Commercial paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Aons principal insurance underwriting subsidiaries are rated "A", with a stable outlook by A.M. Best for their claims paying ability. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $603 million during 2003 to $4.5 billion, primarily reflecting: $628 million of net income before preferred dividends a $231 million (after tax) foreign exchange benefit These equity increases were partially offset by dividends paid to stockholders of $190 million. Accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased $93 million since December 31, 2002. Net foreign exchange losses improved by $231 million because of the weakening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies as compared to the prior year end. Net derivative gains increased $28 million over year end 2002. Net unrealized investment gains rose $20 million during 2003. During 2003, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the U.K., incurred losses due to reduced discount rates. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. require a company to maintain, at a minimum, a liability on its balance sheet equal to the difference between the present 53 value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. At year end 2003, this increased pension obligation caused a $186 million (after tax) reduction to stockholders equity. We maintain the related pension plan assets in separate trust accounts; they are not part of our consolidated financial statements. This non cash adjustment did not affect 2003 earnings. For 2004, we project: our pension expense for our major defined benefit plans to be approximately $225 million. This expense was significantly affected by a lower discount rate. cash contributions to the major defined benefit pension plans will be approximately $195 million. At December 31, 2003, stockholders equity per share was $14.32, up from $12.56 at December 31, 2002, due principally to net income for 2003. Our total debt and preferred securities as a percentage of total capital is 33% at December 31, 2003, compared to 40% at year end 2002. 54  Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have various contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. Aon and its subsidiaries have issued letters of credit to cover contingent payments of approximately $90 million for taxes and other business obligations to third parties. We accrue amounts in our consolidated financial statements for these letters of credit to the extent they are probable and estimable. We use special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities (QSPE), also known as special purpose vehicles, in some of our operations, following the guidance of FASB Statement No. 140 and other relevant accounting guidance. Premium Financing Some of our special purpose vehicles were formed solely to purchase financing receivables and sell those balances to conduits owned and managed by third party financial institutions. Subject to certain limitations, agreements allow us to sell to these conduit vehicles through December 2005. As of December 31, 2003, the maximum commitment contained in these agreements was $1.9 billion. Under the agreements, we sell the receivables to the conduits. Consequently, the conduits bear the credit risks on the receivables, subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves provided by our subsidiaries and which we guarantee. Under the guarantee provisions, our maximum cash requirement was approximately $75 million at December 31, 2003. The U.S. facility was renewed in July 2003 and the European facility was renewed in October 2003. The U.S. facility was increased by $100 million, and for both facilities, Aons percentage guarantee was reduced, replaced by a collateral enhancement. We intend to renew these conduit facilities when they expire. If there are adverse bank, regulatory, tax or accounting rule changes, our access to the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be restricted. These special purpose vehicles are not included in our consolidated financial statements. PEPS I On December 31, 2001, we sold the vast majority of our LP portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company, owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which we do not control, established for victims of the September 11th attacks (51%). PEPS sold approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities to unaffiliated third parties. It then paid our insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and issued them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. Standard & Poors Ratings Services rated the fixed maturity securities our subsidiaries received from PEPS I as investment grade. As part of this transaction, the insurance companies must purchase from PEPS I additional fixed maturity securities in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. Approximately $20 million of these commitments were funded in 2003. As of December 31, 2003, the unfunded commitments amounted to $80 million. These commitments have specific expiration dates and the general partners may decide not to draw on these commitments. Based on the rating agencies downgrades of Aons credit ratings in October 2002 on Aons senior debt, credit support agreements were purchased in January 2003 whereby $100 million of cash of one of our underwriting subsidiaries has been pledged as collateral for these commitments. This collateral has been reduced to $77 million at December 31, 2003. 55 If the insurance companies fail to purchase additional fixed maturity securities as commitments are drawn down, we have guaranteed their purchase. Subsequent to closing the securitization, one of the insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. The assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I are not included in our consolidated financial statements. Aon has recognized other than temporary impairment writedowns equal to the original cost of one tranche, including $32 million in 2002 and $27 million in first quarter 2003. The preferred stock interest represents a beneficial interest in the securitized limited partnership investments. The fair value of the private preferred stock interests depends on the value of the limited partnership investments held by PEPS I. Management assesses other than temporary declines in the fair value below cost using a financial model that considers: the value of the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I the nature and timing of the cash flows from the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I. Combined Global Funding In 1998, CICA, an Aon subsidiary, formed Combined Global Funding, LLC, a Cayman Islands based special purpose entity (SPE), to issue notes to investors under a European Medium Term Note Program (EMTN). The proceeds of the notes were used to purchase funding agreement policies issued by CICA. The contract terms of the funding agreement mirror the terms of the trust medium term notes. Historically, the SPE has been consolidated by CICA based on the guidance in ARB 51 and EITF Topic D 14, with the EMTNs being classified as a policyholder liability in Aons consolidated financial statements rather than notes payable, given that the liquidation preference of the underlying debt more closely resembled the characteristics of a policyholder liability. The interest expense on the EMTNs has been included in benefits to policyholders in the consolidated statements of income. The amounts of EMTNs outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $50 million and $79 million, respectively. In 2005, the remaining outstanding EMTN and the corresponding funding agreement are scheduled to be redeemed. Upon the adoption of FIN 46, Aon has determined that the SPE is a VIE and CICA is not the primary beneficiary, because CICA does not have a variable interest in the SPE. As a result, CICA was required to deconsolidate the trust on December 31, 2003. There was no effect on the consolidated statements of financial position or income statements as a result of this deconsolidation, as the funding agreement liability between CICA and the SPE is now classified as a policyholder liability. Contractual Obligations The following table: summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2003 and the future periods during which we expect to settle these obligations in cash. reflects the timing of principal payments on outstanding borrowings. 56 Additional details about these obligations are provided in our footnotes to the financial statements as noted below. Payments due by period (in millions) Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 Years More than 5 years Total Long Term Debt (note 8) $ 318 $ 260 $ 262 $ 1,255 $ 2,095 Interest expense on Long Term Debt 134 216 175 1,176 1,701 Operating Leases (note 8) 354 586 408 877 2,225 Redeemable Preferred Stock (note 11) (1) 50 50 Other Policyholder Funds 58 58 Purchase Obligations 128 60 9 1 198 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet under GAAP 7 11 2 5 25 Total $ 941 $ 1,191 $ 856 $ 3,364 $ 6,352 (1)Shares are redeemable at the option of Aon or the holders beginning one year after the occurrence of a certain future event. We also have obligations with respect to our pension and other benefit plans. (See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements as well as our discussion on liquidity, above.) Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. Aon does not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading purposes. The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies used to manage these risks. A discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives is included in notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our primary exposures are to the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar. We use over the counter (OTC) options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign operations. Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiary earns approximately 60% of its revenue in U.S. dollars but the majority of its expenses are incurred in pounds sterling. Our policy is to convert into pounds sterling sufficient U.S. dollar revenue to fund the subsidiarys pound sterling expenses using over the counter (OTC) options and forward exchange contracts. At December 31, 2003, we have hedged 80% of the U.K. subsidiaries expected U.S. dollar transaction exposure for the next twelve months. We do not generally hedge exposures beyond three years. The impact to 2003 and 2002 pretax income in the event of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the respective quoted year end exchange rates would not be material after consideration of derivative positions. The nature of the income of our businesses is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical, instantaneous parallel 57 decrease in the period end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $9 million and $14 million to 2003 and 2002 pretax income, respectively. The valuation of our fixed maturity portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2003 and 2002 by approximately $90 million and $85 million, respectively. We have notes payable and preferred securities outstanding with a fair value of $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. This fair value was greater than the carrying value by $234 million and $36 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 7% and 6% at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The valuation of our marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $4 million at December 31, 2003 compared to $6 million at December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. We have selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity market prices in order to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. We believe that these changes in rates and prices are reasonably possible over a one year period. 58  
 
