Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Managements Discussion and Analysis is organized as follows: I. OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Executive Summary of 2004 Financial Results II. KEY RECENT EVENTS Investigation by the New York Attorney General and Other Regulatory Authorities Investment in Endurance common stock and warrants Sale of certain businesses III. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Pensions Contingencies Policy Liabilities Valuation of Investments Intangible Assets IV. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General Summary Results for 2002 through 2004 Consolidated Results for 2004 Compared to 2003 Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2004 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2003 Consolidated Results for 2003 Compared to 2002 V. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Consulting Insurance Underwriting Corporate and Other VI. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Cash Flows Financial Condition Investments Borrowings Stockholders Equity Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 22  OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Segments The key drivers of financial performance vary among our segments. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services. Brokerage segment results are affected by a number of key drivers, including (i) conditions in insurance markets generally (particularly fluctuations in premiums charged by insurance companies), (ii) success in attracting new clients and avoiding loss of existing clients, (iii) managing our expenses, (iv) fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and (v) interest income on our investments. In addition, in 2004, this segment was substantially affected by the matters discussed under "Key Recent Events Investigation by the New York Attorney General (AG) and Other Regulatory Authorities" and our related decision to terminate contingent commission arrangements. In connection with the elimination of contingent commission arrangements, we are in the process of establishing a new business compensation model. Consulting. Consulting segment results are principally affected by (i) the employment levels of our clients that are mainly driven by economic conditions, (ii) governmental regulations affecting the health care market, employee benefit programs, and our clients respective industries, (iii) success in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients, (iv) our success in cross selling services among business units, and (v) managing our overall level of expenses. In addition, in 2004, this segment was also affected by the matters discussed under "Key Recent Events Investigation by the New York Attorney General and Other Regulatory Authorities" and our related decision to terminate contingent commission arrangements. Insurance Underwriting. Underwriting segment revenues are affected by (i) consumer buying habits that are influenced by economic conditions, (ii) our assumption of select commercial property and casualty insurance business particularly from our managing underwriting group in our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment, (iii) competition with other underwriters (including competition based upon claims paying ratings), (iv) success in selling new policies, selling existing policyholders more services, and having customers renew their policies, (v) the effectiveness and collectability of our reinsurance contracts, particularly in programs where we serve as the fronting company, ceding substantially all risk, and (vi) investment results. Corporate and Other. The key drivers of results in this segment are investment income and debt financing costs. Liquidity Liquidity is derived from cash flows from our business, excluding funds held on behalf of clients, and from financing. We use liquidity for capital expenditures, to repay debt, to fund acquisitions and pension obligations, and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because we are a holding company, our subsidiaries may not have available cash to pay us dividends (which, in the case of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, is limited by regulatory and rating agency considerations). Tax considerations may affect access to cash generated from operations outside the United States, as can pension funding requirements in both our domestic and international pension plans. Executive Summary of 2004 Financial Results We are proud of the high quality of our products and services, the breadth and depth of our intellectual capital, and the leading market positions that we have built. In 2004, consolidated revenues from continuing operations increased 5% to $10.2 billion, mainly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. Our organic revenue growth (which adjusts revenue growth for the effects of foreign exchange and other factors) was flat for the year. 23 Our income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest fell $251 million from 2003. The decrease in income was primarily from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment, as well as an increase in interest expense of $58 million due to the adoption at December 31, 2003 of FIN 46. Several factors that hurt our 2004 results included: a $180 million provision for settlements with the New York AG and other regulatory authorities and a $40 million provision for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit, increased net periodic pension expense related to our major defined benefit pension plans of $47 million, which primarily affected our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment, lost contingent commission revenue of approximately $47 million in 2004 due to the termination of these arrangements as of October 1, 2004, and an $80 million unrealized investment gain recognized in earnings in 2003 relating to our warrants in Endurance Specialty Holdings, Inc. ("Endurance"). The value of these warrants in 2004 remained consistent with the December 31, 2003 value. Partially offsetting the absence of an unrealized gain on the warrants in 2004 were realized gains of $48 million from the sale of most of our common stock investment in Endurance. We are working to improve our margins by seeking organic revenue growth and greater financial discipline. More specifically, we are: working to prudently manage employee compensation and benefit expenses; in light of our terminating contingent commission arrangements, working with our clients, insurance carriers, regulators and others to establish a new business model that will ensure that we are properly compensated, while maintaining transparency and the trust of our clients; reviewing strategic alternatives for our various businesses. During 2004, we sold our U.S. and U.K. claims businesses, as well as other small operations; leveraging our purchasing power with vendors, suppliers, and landlords; pursuing alternative resourcing strategies, such as outsourcing, to more efficiently provide non client facing services. In third quarter 2004, we began outsourcing most of our U.S. information technology infrastructure to Computer Sciences Corporation. Over the seven year agreement, we expect to realize approximately $300 million of aggregate savings beginning in the second half of 2005 from outsourcing and consolidating data centers and other functions; and offering additional services to existing clients who can benefit from our wide range of resources. We continue to do a better job of generating and managing our cash. More specifically, we: grew our cash and investment balances. Our cash balance increased $30 million and our total investment balance increased $1.3 billion; paid down $46 million of total debt in 2004. We paid down $305 million of domestic long term debt that was scheduled to be redeemed this year. That decrease was mostly offset by an increase in borrowings at our foreign subsidiaries. We drew down $334 million on our long term Euro credit facility to ensure adequate liquidity in the fourth quarter of 2004. Our debt and preferred stock to total capital percentage declined from 32.8% at December 31, 2003 to 29.8% at December 31, 2004; and reduced capital expenditure spending by $105 million or 57% from 2003. All of Aons financial information reflects the application of critical accounting policies, estimates, assumptions and judgments, as discussed below under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." Further discussion of these items may be found in the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis. 24 KEY RECENT EVENTS Investigation by the New York Attorney General and Other Regulatory Authorities The insurance industry has recently come under significant scrutiny by various regulatory authorities. In April 2004, the New York AG began investigating various insurance industry practices, including placement service agreements, market service agreements, and similar agreements under which insurance carriers pay compensation to insurance brokers, including Aon, beyond standard commissions. The New York AG issued subpoenas to various companies in the insurance industry, including Aon, related to these agreements and various other practices, including alleged tying of reinsurance, bid rigging, and soliciting fictitious quotes. Other state attorneys general and state departments of insurance have also issued subpoenas to Aon or begun investigations into contingent commissions and other business practices of brokers, agents and insurers, and some state regulators have announced that they intend to enact new regulations or policies to govern these practices. Contingent commissions generally are non service specific, volume or profit based compensation arrangements between insurers and brokers. Similarly, regulatory authorities in other countries are either considering or have already begun similar inquiries. Aon is fully cooperating with all the investigations, and has retained outside counsel to conduct its own internal review of its compensation and other practices. In October 2004, the New York AG filed a complaint against Marsh & McLennan Company, Inc., and its subsidiary, Marsh Inc., alleging that Marsh committed fraud and violated New York State antitrust and securities laws. On October 15, 2004, Marsh announced that it was suspending the use of contingent commission agreements. On October 22, 2004, we announced that we were terminating contingent commission arrangements with underwriters. We have nearly completed this process and are working with clients, insurance carriers, regulators, and others to establish a new business model that ensures that we link compensation to specific, measurable services in a way that is transparent, easy to understand, and accepted by clients. Other insurance brokers and carriers have also announced that they will terminate contingent commission arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we earned approximately $132 million of contingent commissions versus $169 million in 2003. Of the $132 million contingent commissions earned in 2004: $111 million was included in our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment and $21 million was included in our Consulting segment. We earned $15 million of contingent commissions in fourth quarter 2004 versus $52 million in 2003. The amount recorded in this years fourth quarter represents amounts earned on arrangements covering periods prior to October 1, 2004. A small number of these arrangements call for the calculations to be performed on an annual basis. Some of these calculations occurred in the fourth quarter, and minimal amounts are likely to be recorded in 2005. Contingent commission revenue was $37 million lower in 2004 compared to 2003 as a direct result of terminating our contingent commission arrangements. However, we estimated $47 million of lost contingent commission revenue in 2004 that would have been earned had we not terminated these arrangements. The loss of revenues from these agreements will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for 2005. As of December 31, 2004, we have approximately $50 million of net receivables recorded related to contingent commissions, which we believe we are entitled to and will collect. During 2004, we also earned approximately $143 million of other compensation for services to underwriters, all of which is included in our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment. This other compensation encompasses activities such as affinity program management, managing general 25 underwriting, and wholesale brokerage where we act as the agent for carriers. In addition, this includes compensation for specific services as is customary in some markets outside the United States. On March 4, 2005, Aon Corporation ("Aon") and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the "Company") entered into an agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") with the Attorney General of the State of New York, the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York, the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut, the Illinois Attorney General and the Director of the Division of Insurance, Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (collectively, the "State Agencies") to resolve all the issues related to investigations conducted by the State Agencies. The material terms of the Settlement Agreement are as follows: The Company will pay $190 million into a fund (the "Fund") to be distributed to certain eligible policyholder clients. These payments are in full satisfaction of the Companys obligations under the Settlement Agreement and the State Agencies have agreed not to impose any other financial obligation or liability on the Company related to the lawsuits. No portion of the payments by the Company is considered a fine or penalty. The Company will make payments into the Fund as follows: On or before September 1, 2005, the Company shall pay $76 million into the Fund. On or before September 1, 2006, the Company shall pay $76 million into the Fund. On or before September 1, 2007, the Company shall pay $38 million into the Fund. The Fund, plus interest, will be used to compensate the Companys eligible policyholder clients according to procedures set out in the Settlement Agreement. No amount paid to the Fund will be returned to Aon under any circumstances. On or before June 30, 2005, the Company will calculate, in accordance with a formula approved by the State Agencies, the amount that each policyholder client is eligible to receive from the Fund. Clients eligible to participate in the Fund are those U.S. clients that engaged the Company to place, renew, consult on or service insurance with inception or renewal dates between January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2004 (the "Relevant Period") where such placement, renewal, consultation or servicing resulted in contingent commissions or overrides recorded by Aon during the Relevant Period (the "Eligible Policyholders"). On or before June 30, 2005, the Company must send a notice to each Eligible Policyholder setting forth, among other things, the amount it will be paid from the Fund if it elects to participate (a "Participating Policyholder"). Participating Policyholders must tender a release of claims against the Company arising from acts, omissions, transactions or conduct that are the subject of the lawsuits. On November 30, 2005, September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2007, each Participating Policyholder shall receive from the Fund as much of that Participating Policyholders aggregate share of the Fund as possible with the monies then available in the Fund. In the event that an Eligible Policyholder elects not to participate or otherwise does not respond by October 30, 2005 (a "Non Participating Policyholder"), that clients allocated share may be used by the Company to satisfy any pending or other claims asserted by clients relating to issues in the Settlement Agreement. In no event shall a distribution be made from the Fund to any other client until all Participating Policyholders have been paid, nor shall total payments to any Non Participating Policyholder exceed 80% of that policyholders original allocated share. If any funds remain in the Fund as of October 1, 2007 such funds shall be distributed pro rata to the Participating Policyholders by November 1, 2007. In no event shall any of the amounts paid into the Fund be used to pay attorneys fees. 26 Within 60 days of the date of the Settlement Agreement, the Company shall commence the implementation of certain business reforms, including the following: To accept only a specific fee to be paid by the client, a specific percentage commission on premium to be paid by an insurer set at the time of purchase, renewal, placement or servicing of an insurance policy, or a combination of both. To fully disclose in plain, unambiguous written language commissions in either dollars or percentage amounts. Not to accept any other valuable compensation or consideration from an insurer other than as stated above, including contingent compensation and any compensation or preference in connection with the selection of insurers from which to solicit bids for clients. Not to request or accept from any insurer any false, fictitious or inflated quote, or quote that does not represent the insurers best evaluation at the time of the minimum premium the insurer would require to bind the insurance coverage sought by the client. Not to request or accept from any insurer any promise or commitment for the use of our services, including reinsurance brokerage, conditioned upon any arrangement to provide preferential treatment for any insurer. Not to place, renew or service a clients business through a wholesale broker unless agreed to by the client after full disclosure of all the compensation to be received, any interest we may have in the wholesale broker, and any alternative to using the wholesaler broker. To fully disclose to each client all quotes received in connection with coverage of the clients risk with all terms and, all commissions to be received for each quote, and to provide disclosure of and obtain clients written consent to all compensation arrangements. To disclose to each client at the end of each year all compensation received during the preceding year from any insurer or third party in connection with the clients policy. To implement company wide written standards of conduct regarding compensation from insurers consistent with the terms of the settlement and institute appropriate training of employees, including business ethics, professional obligations, conflicts of interest, antitrust and trade practices compliance and record keeping. To establish a Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors that will monitor our compliance with the standards of conduct regarding compensation. To maintain a record of all complaints regarding compensation from any insurer, and provide such record to the Compliance Committee. To file annual reports with New York and Illinois for five years. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, seek or accept indemnification pursuant to any insurance policy or other reimbursement with respect to any amounts payable under the Settlement Agreement. In accordance with APB Opinion No. 21, Interest on Receivables and Payables, we have discounted the payment stream associated with the settlement and recorded the present value of the liability and corresponding expense of $180 million in our financial statements as of December 31, 2004. The discount was determined using our incremental borrowing rate. We have not discounted the payment due on September 1, 2005. The settlement was considered fully tax deductible and is not treated as a permanent difference in our tax calculation. 27 The difference between our agreed settlement amount of $190 million and the amount in our financial statements as of December 31, 2004 represents the discount. The discount will be amortized over the course of the payment timeframe resulting in an increase in expense. Reconciliation between cash paid and expense incurred (millions) Incurred expense Cash to be paid 2004 $ 180 $ 2005 6 76 2006 3 76 2007 1 38 Total settlement cost $ 190 $ 190 Of the $180 million expensed in 2004, $153 million was allocated to the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment and the remaining $27 million was allocated to the Consulting segment. In addition to the New York AG and other regulatory investigations, we are defending various client class action lawsuits. We have provided $40 million for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. Of the $40 million recorded, $34 million was allocated to our Risk and Insurance Brokerage segment and the remaining $6 million was allocated to our Consulting segment. Investment in Endurance Common Stock and Warrants During 2004, we sold virtually all of our common stock investment in Endurance resulting in a $48 million pretax gain for the year ended December 31, 2004. We sold: 9.8 million shares at a net realized price of $32.70 per share, resulting in proceeds of $320 million during fourth quarter 2004 and 1.4 million shares at a net realized price of $33.20 per share, resulting in proceeds of $47 million during first quarter 2004. We invested all the proceeds in short term investments that are held by our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. We retain 4.1 million stock purchase warrants in Endurance. These warrants meet the definition of a derivative as described in FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires them to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. Through December 31, 2002, these warrants were carried at zero value, which approximated their original cost. In 2003, Endurance completed its initial public offering, which provided a market value for the underlying shares and removed much of the uncertainty about the fair value of Endurance and the warrants. At December 31, 2004, we determined that the warrants had a fair value of approximately $80 million, consistent with the valuation as of December 31, 2003. We recognized these changes in value in investment income in the Corporate and Other segment. For the year ended December 31, 2004 the total change was immaterial. The future value of the warrants may vary considerably from the value at December 31, 2004, due to the price movement of the underlying shares, the passage of time, and changes in other factors used in the valuation model (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the valuation of the warrants). Sale of Certain Businesses During 2003 and 2004, we sold certain businesses, including our: automotive finance servicing business, which had been in run off since first quarter 2001, 28 U.K. claims services businesses, a small non core consulting subsidiary, U.K. reinsurance brokerage runoff unit, and a small U.S. brokerage unit. The operating results of all of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations, and prior years operating results have been reclassified to discontinued operations, as this table shows: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Revenues $ 33 $ 105 $ 106 Pretax loss: Operations $ (20 ) $ (53 ) $ (47 ) Revaluation (23 ) (23 ) Total $ (43 ) $ (76 ) $ (47 ) After tax loss: Operations $ (13 ) $ (34 ) $ (30 ) Revaluation (18 ) (14 ) Total $ (31 ) $ (48 ) $ (30 ) See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, "Disposal of Operations," for further information. In November 2004, we sold our Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. ("Cambridge") claims administration business to Scandent Holdings Mauritius Limited (SHM) for $90 million in cash plus convertible preferred stock in SHM, valued at $15 million. Because of our convertible preferred stock holding and other factors, we included Cambridges results prior to the sales effective date, as well as a pretax gain on the sale of approximately $15 million, in income from continuing operations. From time to time, we explore strategic alternatives for our various businesses. In February 2005, we announced that we are exploring alternatives relating to our ownership of Swett & Crawford, which is currently the largest U.S. based wholesale insurance broker with more than 900 employees in 40 offices. By exploring alternatives, we expect to determine if Swett & Crawfords potential can be realized more fully under different ownership. No decision has been made to sell Swett & Crawford at this time. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Aons consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect: what we report as our assets and liabilities, what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. In accordance with our policies, we: regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those concerning revenue recognition, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves and policy and contract claim reserves), restructuring costs, retirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation, and base our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. 29 The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used to prepare these consolidated financial statements. Pensions U.S. Plans Effective January 1, 2004, the U.S. pension plans were closed to new employees. All new employees participate in a defined contribution plan. Over time, this change will reduce the volatility inherent in the accounting for the U.S. pension plans. Aon uses a market related valuation of assets to calculate pension expense. This valuation reflects a five year average of the difference between the expected return on plan assets and the actual market value return. The prior year market related value is projected to the current date by adjusting for contributions, benefit payments and expected returns. The asset gain or loss is the difference between the expected return on assets and the actual return on assets. Twenty percent of the asset gain or loss is recognized in the current years market related value, with the remaining eighty percent spread evenly over the next four years. As of year end 2004, the market related value of assets does not yet reflect our accumulated asset losses of $142 million. These losses will increase pension expense as they are graded into the market related asset value and may be offset by future asset gains. As of year end 2004, we reported a fair value of pension assets of $969 million, while the market related value of assets is $1,111 million. Under FASB Statement No. 87, the full gain or loss on assets and obligations is not recorded as expense in the current period. Statement No. 87 allows changes in the projected benefit obligation and market value of assets to be deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense over several years, based on the average expected future service of active employees, which is currently nine years. Gains and losses on pension obligations include the net effects of changes in the discount rate as well as demographic changes in the employee data. For the 2004 valuation year, the pension plans have a combined deferred loss of $584 million (comprised of unrecognized asset losses of $142 million and other than deferred asset losses of $442 million) that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the other than deferred asset losses of $442 million outside of a corridor, over about nine years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the market related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2005, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is projected to be $34 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. The pension plan investment policy allows assets to be allocated to various asset classes. According to the policy, the percentage of total assets invested in each class should fall within a range. There is a target allocation for long term investment decisions. However, the range provides flexibility to accommodate prevailing market conditions. In order to determine the expected long term rate of return for the pension plan, we analyze the historical performance, investment community forecasts, and current market conditions to develop expected returns for each of the plans asset classes. In setting the individual asset assumptions, we weight the historical performance data series most heavily toward the geometric average returns. We then weight the expected returns for each asset class by the plans target allocation. To determine pension expense, we currently assume a long term rate of return of 8.5%. 30  This table shows the result of the calculation based on the target asset allocation for year end 2004. The actual return for the 2004 valuation year (10.5%) was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Allocation Range Target Allocation Historical Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate of Return Equities 50 80 % 70% Domestic Equities 40 70 40 10.0 % 4.0 % Limited Partnerships and Other 2.5 20 10 11.3 1.1 International Equities 5 15 10 10.4 1.0 Real Estate and REITs 5 15 10 8.8 0.9 Aon Common Stock 0 5 No Target 10.0 Debt Securities 20 50 30 Fixed Maturities 20 50 30 6.0 1.8 Invested Cash 0 2 No Target 3.1 Total 8.8 % There are several assumptions that impact the actuarial calculation of pension obligations and, in turn, net periodic pension expense in accordance with Statement No. 87. These assumptions require various degrees of judgment. The most significant assumptions are: the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate. The same assumptions are used for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans where applicable. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase our estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $38 million and the estimated 2005 postretirement medical benefit expense by $0.5 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the 2005 estimated pension expense by approximately $31 million and the postretirement medical benefit expense by approximately $0.5 million. Similarly, holding other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $11 million and increase in the estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease pension expense by approximately $11 million. Required cash contributions are also sensitive to assumptions, however the assumptions used to determine contributions to the plan are changed infrequently. We anticipate cash funding requirements of $47 million in 2005 and $100 million in 2006. Major U.K. Plans During 1999, the U.K. pension plans were closed to new employees, and all new employees became participants in a defined contribution plan. As with the U.S. plans, this change will gradually reduce the volatility of the accounting for U.K. pension plans. As with our other international plans, the U.K. plans are solely obligations of subsidiaries of Aon Corporation. 31 For the 2004 valuation year, the major U.K. pension plans have a combined deferred loss (from asset and liability experience) of $1,500 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the accumulated loss outside of a corridor over 17 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2005, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $67 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. To determine pension expense, we use the fair market value of plan assets. Generally, the trustees of the U.K. plans determine the investment policy for each plan. In total, at the end of the 2004 valuation year, the plans were invested 66% in equities and 34% in fixed income securities with a fair value of $2,355 million. In determining the expected rate of return, investment community forecasts and current market conditions are analyzed to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plans. Consideration is given to historic performance data over long periods in order to check the assumption in each class relative to each other. The expected returns for each asset class are then weighted by the actual asset allocation of the plans. To determine pension expense, we currently assume a long term rate of return of 7.25%. This table shows the result of the calculation based on the actual asset allocation for year end 2004. The actual return for the 2004 valuation year (8.2%) was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Allocation Range Target Allocation Historical Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate of Return Equities 45 75 % 65% UK Equities 30 50 39 8.5 % 3.3 % Non UK Equities 10 25 22 8.5 1.9 Real Estate 0 10 4 8.0 0.3 Debt Securities 25 55 35 Fixed Maturities 25 55 35 5.2 1.8 Invested Cash 0 0 3.5 Total 7.3 % With respect to U.K. pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $51 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $48 million. Similarly, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $23 million and increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $23 million. Cash flow requirements are also sensitive to assumptions, however the assumptions used for funding the U.K. plans are changed infrequently. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate U.K. funding requirements of $152 million in both 2005 and 2006. These contributions reflect minimum funding requirements plus other amounts agreed to with the trustees of the U.K. plans. 32 Dutch Plan To determine pension expense, we use the fair market value of plan assets that, at year end 2004, amounted to $363 million. At the end of 2004, the Dutch pension plan has a combined deferred loss of $135 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the accumulated loss outside of a corridor over 20 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2005, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $5 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. The target asset allocation is 35% equities and 65% fixed income securities, with an allowed deviation of 5%. At year end 2004, the actual asset allocation was consistent with the target allocation. The expected long term rate of return is 6%, which results from an expected future return of 8% on equities and a 5% return on fixed income investments. With respect to Dutch pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $6 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $5 million. A one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $4 million and increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $4 million. At year end 2004, the Dutch pension plan had a prepaid pension asset of $121 million. In the future, if the funded status of the plan deteriorates, this amount could be reflected in a minimum pension liability, which would reduce stockholders equity. The Company accelerated a planned 2005 contribution of approximately $18 million into the pension plan before December 31, 2004. Contingencies We define a contingency as any material condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved. Under GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for contingencies when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual issue. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each issue, or changes in approach, such as changing our settlement strategy. We have reflected the impact of the March 2005 New York AG and other regulatory authorities settlement in our December 31, 2004 financial statements. The settlement amount is fixed and determinable, therefore the liability was discounted to the net present value of the payments based on our incremental borrowing rate in accordance with APB 21. The $10 million difference between the settlement amount of $190 million and the $180 million liability recorded in our balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 represents the discount. This discount will increase our expenses in future years as it is amortized into expense. 33 In addition to the New York AG and other regulatory authorities settlement accrual, we have also accrued $40 million for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. Policy Liabilities Through our insurance underwriting operations, we collect premiums from policyholders, and we establish liabilities (reserves) to pay benefits to policyholders. The liabilities for policy benefits, claims, and unearned premiums are a large portion of the total policy liabilities shown on our balance sheet, and are comprised primarily of estimated future payments to policyholders, policy and contract claims, and unearned and advance premiums and contract fees. Accident, Health & Life To establish policy liabilities, we develop estimates of reported and anticipated claims, based on our historical experience, other actuarial data, and assumptions on investment yields. We base interest rate assumptions on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality, morbidity, persistency, and interest rate assumptions are set when we issue new insurance policies, we may need to provide for additional losses on a product by increasing reserves, reducing previously capitalized acquisition costs established for that product, or by establishing premium deficiency reserves if there are significant changes in our experience or assumptions. The process of estimating and establishing policy and contract liabilities is inherently uncertain and the actual ultimate cost of a claim may vary materially from the estimated amount reserved. Liabilities for incurred but unpaid claims include estimated costs relating to incurred and reported claims and incurred but not reported claims. The liability for unpaid claims is based on the estimated ultimate cost of settling claims using best estimates of past experience. These estimates reflect known current trends and any other factors that would influence historical data. Actual experience may vary from anticipated levels due to changes in claim reporting, processing patterns and variations from historic averages for the amount paid per claim. Variations from historic patterns and averages could result in additional changes that increase or decrease unpaid claim liabilities. As of December 31, 2004, there were no known changes in reporting or processing patterns. Except for products that meet the definition of FASB Statement No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, the liability for future policy benefits relating to long duration contracts is accrued when premium revenue is recognized. The liability represents the present value of future benefits to be paid to policyholders less the present value of future premiums, and is estimated using methods that include assumptions such as estimates of expected investment yields, mortality, morbidity, and policy persistency. Emerging trends in morbidity, mortality, persistency, and asset yields may cause the actual experience to vary from original estimates. The financial impacts of changes from original assumptions are taken into account as the actual experience is realized. Some of these trends can fluctuate significantly over time. To the extent that current estimates of the present value of future benefits exceed the present value of future premiums for a product line, all excess amounts have been taken into account as a loss. There are no current estimates of the overall net gain resulting from improvements from original assumptions. Long duration contracts that meet the definition of Statement No. 97, such as universal life type products are accounted for in a manner consistent with the accounting for interest bearing or other financial instruments. Payments received on those contracts are not reported as revenue and a corresponding policy benefit reserve is not established. The liability for policy benefits is equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders at the date of the financial statements, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods, 34 and amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract. Claim Liability (millions) Reserves for claim liabilities as of the year ended were as follows: December 31, 2004 $ 422 December 31, 2003 $ 447 December 31, 2002 $ 421 A 1% increase in the assumed medical cost trends would reduce pretax income by approximately $1.8 million. Future Policy Benefits (millions) Reserves for future policy benefits as of the year ended were as follows: December 31, 2004 $ 1,542 December 31, 2003 $ 1,396 December 31, 2002 $ 1,310 If a 1% unfavorable change were to occur in the mortality and morbidity assumptions for both the accident & health and life books of business, pretax income would be decreased by approximately $7 million. Warranty Our warranty business is unique in comparison to traditional underwriting businesses in that we are providing warranties for consumer goods and credit. These programs are generally reviewed by policy period to determine the necessary reserves for warranty claims. For automobile warranty, terms may extend as far as seven years with a few warranties lasting longer. Other warranty lines have terms extending up ten years with a few warranties lasting longer. In addition to the term of the warranty, other characteristics are taken into account when estimating the reserves. Considerations such as the manufacturer or classes of products are reviewed and embedded in our calculation methodology. Similar to other underwriting activities, historic loss development factors are used to project the ultimate loss. For recent periods we use the Bornhuetter Ferguson method. This method is commonly used in underwriting businesses. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method combines loss development methods with an expected loss ratio technique. The expected loss ratio is computed using either judgment, recent experience, or other commonly used statistical methods such as the Cape Cod method. These methods result in a point estimate of our liability, which was $822 million as of December 31, 2004. We believe that the ultimate development of the recorded liability could be as much as 10% more or 5% less. Sources of uncertainty include technological innovations such as plasma TVs and liquid crystal displays. In addition, some of our policies include profit sharing where the client participates in underwriting profits but we pay all underwriting losses. 35 Property & Casualty The loss reserve estimates for all property and casualty lines of business are derived by accident year from a minimum of five standard actuarial techniques including, but not limited to, incurred and paid loss development factors based on both program history and industry development patterns for similar lines of business. A Bornhuetter Ferguson Method is also employed incorporating historical loss ratio performance weighted with case emergence to date. Where such data is available, frequency and severity methods are used taking into account claim count emergence and severity trends. The selected ultimate loss estimates are based on the range of estimates discussed above. A typical selection is the average of the estimates, but that selection may also be influenced by the consistency of the estimates, knowledge of emerging loss trends, and rate or benefit changes. Selected ultimate losses are evaluated for business on a direct, assumed, ceded and net basis. From the selected ultimate losses, paid losses are deducted to arrive at the total reserve. The total reserve includes case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves. At December 31, 2004, our recorded liability was $277 million. Given the current knowledge of the overall variability of property and casualty exposures, loss reserves are expected to fall within 10 loss ratio points (or approximately $20 million) of our selected estimate 95% of the time. Valuation of Investments We periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairment. We analyze various risk factors and determine if any specific asset impairment exists. If there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value. We review invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. Those assets are separated into two categories: (1)Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events, which are segmented among four categories: fixed maturity investments; publicly traded preferred stocks; publicly traded common stocks; and private common and preferred stocks and other invested assets. (2)Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events. Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events Fixed maturity investments. At least quarterly, we: review the creditworthiness of corporate obligors for changes by nationally recognized credit rating agencies and changes in fundamental financial performance of the underlying entity, monitor cash flow trends and underlying levels of collateral for asset backed securities, and evaluate all bonds and asset backed securities whose financial performance has declined for other than temporary impairment. Publicly traded preferred stocks. We review issuer creditworthiness at least quarterly. Creditworthiness factors reviewed include nationally recognized credit rating agency rating changes and changes in financial performance of the underlying issuer. We monitor all preferred stock investments with declining financial performance for other than temporary impairment. Publicly traded common stocks. Quarterly, we review each common stock investment to determine if its decline in value is deemed other than temporary. Our review includes an analysis of issuer 36 financial trends, and market expectations based on third party forward looking analytical reports, when available. Private common and preferred stocks and other invested assets. We review quarterly private issue valuations, which include recent transaction valuations between the issuer and a third party; financial performance reviews; and financial trend comparisons with publicly traded companies in the same or similar industries. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss when appropriate for these investments with continuous material unrealized losses due to issuer specific events. This decision is based upon the facts and circumstances for each investment. Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events Invested assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events include those negatively impacted by increasing U.S. Treasury or local sovereign interest rates; corporate and asset backed credit spread widening; common stock price volatility due to conditions in the overall market or a particular industry; and illiquid market conditions. Under some conditions, it is assumed that a decline in value below cost is temporary. This assumption is made for fixed maturity investments with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events when the market is expected to recover, and we have the intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, which is a decisive factor when considering an impairment loss. If the decision that holding the investment is no longer appropriate, we will reevaluate that investment for other than temporary impairment. An evaluation is made for other than temporary impairment for preferred and common stock and other investments with continuous material unrealized losses for two consecutive quarters due to market conditions or industry related events. An other than temporary impairment loss is recognized based upon each investments facts and circumstances. We continue to monitor these securities quarterly to ensure that unrealized losses are not the result of issuer specific events. Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of acquired businesses. 37  We: classify our intangible assets as either goodwill, client lists, non compete agreements, future profits of purchased books of business of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, or other purchased intangibles; allocate intangible assets between goodwill and other intangible assets and determine estimated useful lives based on our internal valuations or valuations from qualified independent appraisers. We base the calculations of these amounts on estimates and assumptions using historical and pro forma data and recognized valuation methods. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results; amortize intangible assets other than goodwill over their estimated useful lives, while goodwill is not subject to amortization; and carry intangible assets at cost, less accumulated amortization in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, and more frequently if there are indicators of impairment or whenever business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Impairment reviews are performed at the reporting unit level. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, we would complete further analysis to determine whether there was an impairment loss. No further analysis was required in 2004 or 2003. We base our determinations of fair value on estimates and assumptions related to the amount and timing of future cash flows and future interest rates. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. We included the estimated effects of the regulatory investigations and the termination of contingent commission arrangements in our 2004 impairment test. In March 2005 we re evaluated the results of our annual impairment review due to the subsequent developments on the matters described in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements and concluded that our initial conclusions remain appropriate and that no impairment loss is required. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General In the discussion of operating results we sometimes refer to supplemental information extracted from consolidated financial information, which U.S. GAAP does not require to be presented in the financial statements. Supplemental information related to organic revenue growth is information that helps Aon and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items, and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium. Supplemental organic revenue growth information does not affect net income or any other GAAP reported figures. It should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our consolidated statements of income. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they do not make identical adjustments. Since Aon conducts business in more than 120 countries and sovereignties, the movements of foreign exchange rates are important to our business. In comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign exchange rate movements may be significant and may distort true period to period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, management has isolated the impact of the change in 38 currencies between periods by providing percentage changes on a comparable currency basis for revenue, and has disclosed the effect on earnings per share. This form of reporting is intended to give financial statement users more meaningful information about our operations. Some tables in the segment discussions reconcile organic revenue growth percentages to the reported revenue growth percentages for the segments and sub segments. We separately disclose the impact of foreign currency as well as the impact from acquisitions, divestitures, and transfers of business units, which represent the most significant reconciling items. In an "all other" category, we total other reconciling items that are not generally significant individually or in the aggregate. If there is a significant individual reconciling item within the "all other" category, we provide additional disclosure in a footnote. Summary Results for 2002 through 2004 The consolidated results of continuing operations follow: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 7,060 $ 6,797 $ 6,097 Premiums and other 2,788 2,609 2,368 Investment income 324 312 251 Total consolidated revenue 10,172 9,718 8,716 Expenses: General expenses 7,406 7,013 6,355 Benefits to policyholders 1,516 1,427 1,375 Interest expense 136 101 124 Amortization of intangible assets 54 60 51 Provision for New York and other state settlements 180 Unusual credits World Trade Center (14 ) (29 ) Total expenses 9,292 8,587 7,876 Income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest $ 880 $ 1,131 $ 840 Pretax margin continuing operations 8.7 % 11.6 % 9.6 % Consolidated Results for 2004 Compared to 2003 Revenue In 2004, revenue increased $454 million or 5% over 2003 to $10.2 billion. The movement in foreign exchange rates caused a majority of this increase, as revenue increased $67 million excluding foreign exchange effects. We do not directly hedge revenues against foreign currency translation because it is not cost effective, but we do try to mitigate the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on pretax income through other hedging strategies. Brokerage commissions and fees increased by $263 million or 4% from the prior year, driven almost entirely by favorable foreign exchange rates. There was no organic revenue growth in the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment in large part due to the termination of contingent commission arrangements, as well as a softer insurance market. Consulting organic revenue grew 1%. Premiums and other increased $179 million or 7% from the prior year due to increased retentions, a change in an insurance program for a specialty accident and health line, and favorable foreign 39 exchange rates. Growth in specialty property and casualty and core accident, health, and life business was offset by a planned decrease in the runoff businesses. Investment income increased by 4% over 2003, and includes related investment expenses and income or loss on investment disposals and impairments. The net increase reflects improved results at the operating segments driven primarily by an increase in short term rates, partially offset by a decline at Corporate. Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 % of Total 2003 % of Total 2002 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 5,248 52 % $ 5,198 54 % $ 5,006 57 % United Kingdom 1,732 17 1,756 18 1,543 18 Continent of Europe 1,719 17 1,469 15 1,117 13 Rest of World 1,473 14 1,295 13 1,050 12 Total revenue $ 10,172 100 % $ 9,718 100 % $ 8,716 100 % U.S. consolidated revenue, which represents 52% of total revenue, increased $50 million or 1% in 2004 compared to 2003. The low revenue growth reflects the softer U.S. retail market that began late in 2003 after a two year rapid increase in premiums following the September 11 tragedy and lower contingent commission revenue. Additionally, the November 2004 sale of Cambridge resulted in a $19 million loss of revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003. U.K. revenue decreased $24 million or 1%. Excluding the positive effects of foreign currency exchange, revenue decreased $198 million or 10%. The decrease in revenue is attributable to the soft market, which resulted in lower premiums and commissions. Additionally, the sale of our U.K. claims service business resulted in an $82 million loss of revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003. Continent of Europe revenue increased $250 million or 17% and Rest of World revenue increased $178 million or 14%, principally reflecting a weakening of the U.S. dollar. Expenses Total expenses increased $705 million or 8% over 2003. General expenses increased $393 million or 6% over 2003, reflecting the impact of: foreign exchange rates, increase in our net periodic pension expenses of $47 million for our major plans over 2003, and a $40 million provision for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. Net gains on currency derivative transactions reduced expenses by $45 million in 2004. The 6% increase in benefits to policyholders was driven by the combination of growth in underwriting revenue, the change in an insurance program for a specialty accident and health line, and foreign exchange rates. In 2003, expenses increased due to higher claims for National Program Services, Inc. (NPS) of $79 million (see the Consolidated Results for 2003 Compared to 2002 section below for more information). Interest expense increased $35 million or 35% primarily due to the adoption of FIN 46 on December 31, 2003, which required the deconsolidation of our trust preferred capital securities, and which was offset by an increase in notes payable. Interest expense on the notes payable was $58 million for 2004. Absent this item, interest expense declined $23 million due principally to a reduction in debt 40 levels during most of the year (see Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information). Included in our results is a $180 million provision for settlements resulting from investigations by the New York AG and other regulatory authorities. In 2003, total expenses included a $14 million credit related to the World Trade Center property insurance settlement. The 2003 credit represents a $60 million final settlement of our World Trade Center property insurance claim, net of $46 million paid to a third party relating to temporary office space secured in Manhattan after the World Trade Center was destroyed. Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Because the increase in expenses exceeded the increase in revenues (for the reasons described above), income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest decreased $251 million in 2004 to $880 million. Approximately 87% of Aons 2004 consolidated income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest was from international operations. The $220 million provisions for settlements resulting from investigations by the New York AG and other regulatory authorities and for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit were considered domestic expenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.4% and 37% in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Differences between the overall effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate are typically due to U.S. state income taxes and differentials between U.S. and international tax rates. Changes in the mix between our U.S. and international pretax income directly impact our effective tax rates. In 2004, a one time tax benefit resulting from the difference between our tax and book basis in Cambridge reduced our effective tax rate. A summary of these effects is included in the rate reconciliation provided in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased to $577 million ($1.72 per diluted share) from $676 million ($2.04 per diluted share) in 2003. Basic income per share from continuing operations was $1.80 and $2.12 for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Including the effect of currency hedges, the positive impact of foreign currency translation was approximately $0.18 per share. To compute income per share, we have deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. In accordance with Emerging Income Task Force (EITF) No. 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Investments on Diluted Earnings Per Share, diluted shares outstanding were increased by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. After tax interest expense on these debt securities has been added back to income from continuing operations when calculating the diluted income per share. Discontinued Operations After tax losses from discontinued operations in 2004 were $31 million ($0.10 and $0.09 per basic and diluted share, respectively). In comparison, after tax losses in 2003 from discontinued operations were $48 million ($0.15 and $0.14 per basic and diluted share, respectively). Discontinued operations also include: certain insurance underwriting subsidiaries acquired with Alexander and Alexander Services, Inc. (A&A), where we are paying off these subsidiaries liabilities over several years, and 41 payments related to A&As indemnification of liabilities relating to subsidiaries sold by A&A before its acquisition by Aon. There was no material impact on the income statement from the A&A discontinued operations in 2004, 2003 or 2002. Based on current estimates, management believes that these A&A discontinued operations are adequately reserved. The net liability is included as a component of other liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on discontinued operations). Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2004 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2003 Total revenue in the quarter rose 3% to $2.7 billion. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, revenue was even with last year. Organic growth declined 1% reflecting: a softening insurance market, lower contingent commission revenue of $37 million, and $19 million in lower revenue from the sale of our U.S. Claims service business effective November 30, 2004. The sale of our U.S. and U.K. claims services businesses more than offset the positive impact of acquisitions made by our brokerage operations. Lower claims services revenue (in continuing operations) is primarily due to the sale of Cambridge. These shortfalls were partially offset by growth in international risk and insurance brokerage operations. Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest decreased by $248 million or 69% from 2003. The significant decrease was influenced by: a provision of $180 million for settlements resulting from the investigation by the New York AG and other regulatory authorities, a $40 million provision for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit and a credit in 2003 of $60 million, representing a final settlement for our overall World Trade Center property insurance claim. These were partially offset by: a gain in 2004 of $37 million from the sale of virtually all of our remaining common stock investment in Endurance and a charge in 2003 in the warranty, credit, and property and casualty sub segment of $45 million for additional losses and reserve strengthening for the NPS run off program (see description of NPS in the following section under expenses). Consolidated Results for 2003 Compared to 2002 Revenue Total revenues were $9.7 billion, an increase of 11%. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange rates, revenues increased 6% over the comparable period. This increase resulted from improvements in brokerage commissions and fees, premiums earned, and investment income. 42 Brokerage commissions and fees increased 11% to $6.8 billion as a result of: growth in new business, improved client retention rates for most of our businesses, the weakening U.S. dollar, and higher revenue from a large Consulting segment outsourcing contract begun in the third quarter 2002. Premiums and other, primarily related to insurance underwriting operations, improved to $2.6 billion, a 10% increase over 2002. The increase reflects growth in some warranty and credit programs, along with specialty property and casualty lines, and favorable foreign exchange rates. Investment income increased 24% over 2002, and includes related investment expenses and income or loss on investment disposals and impairments. The net increase reflects: lower impairment write downs in 2003 of $36 million compared with $130 million in 2002. 2002 impairment write downs included a $51 million cumulative adjustment related to prior reporting periods, a non cash increase in the value of Endurance stock warrants of $80 million and equity earnings from our investment in Endurance common stock of $25 million. Equity earnings from our Endurance investment in 2003 and 2002 were $46 million and $21 million, respectively, interest income in 2002 on a tax related settlement of $48 million with no corresponding amount in 2003, and lower investment income generated by the operating units of $85 million including $27 million on deposit type contracts which reflected lower rates. U.S. revenues, which represent 54% of total revenue, increased 4% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of growth driven: primarily by new business development and improved retention rates in both retail and reinsurance brokerage and secondarily by growth in the Consulting segment resulting from a large outsourcing contract that began in the third quarter 2002. This growth was partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our Accident & Health and Life sub segment that was primarily from transferring our U.S. large employer group life and accidental death business to a third party via an indemnity reinsurance arrangement. While moderating, commercial property and casualty premium rate increases for most lines of coverage continued in 2003. We generally benefit from increased premium rates through increased commissions, although higher premiums can cause clients to purchase lower policy limits and retain higher deductibles. Combined U.K. and Continent of Europe revenues increased 21% in 2003 to $3.2 billion and Rest of World revenue increased 23% to $1.3 billion, reflecting foreign exchange, strong new business, and the positive effect of increased premium rates. Expenses General expenses increased 10% over 2002 reflecting: growth of the businesses, the effect of foreign exchange rates, and 43 higher overall defined benefit pension plan costs of $131 million for our major plans. General expenses in 2002 included $50 million of costs from the planned divestiture of the insurance underwriting segment and a credit of $6 million, reflecting the reversal of termination benefits that we incurred as part of our business transformation plan. Benefits to policyholders rose $52 million, or 4%, primarily as the result of new business volume, and losses and reserve strengthening of $65 million relating to NPS business, a non core book of runoff business. NPS was hired to handle quoting, binding, premium collection, claims adjusting, and other servicing related to general liability insurance policies issued by one of Aons subsidiaries. However, in mid 2002, we obtained a temporary restraining order against NPS, stopped it from initiating any new business on our behalf, and with others, sued the company for fraud. In 2003, actuaries examined the business that NPS had written and reviewed assumptions, such as historical loss development patterns and the expected ultimate loss ratio. As a result of this review, we strengthened our reserves, mainly for accident years 2001 and 2002. These reserves should cover future payments we expect to make in the next five to seven years. Excluding NPS, benefit payout ratios have declined, however, due to a shift in product mix. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower debt levels. Amortization of intangible assets grew $9 million from 2002 due primarily to recent acquisitions as well as foreign exchange rates in the risk and insurance brokerage services segment. Total expenses also included a $14 million credit in 2003 and a $29 million credit in 2002 related to the World Trade Center. The 2003 credit represents a $60 million gain from a final settlement of our World Trade Center property insurance claim, net of $46 million related to the assignment to a third party of temporary office space we needed in Manhattan after the World Trade Center was destroyed. The 2002 credit represents a gain resulting from a settlement with our insurance carriers regarding reimbursement for depreciable assets that were destroyed. Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Tax and Minority Interest Income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest increased from $840 million in 2002 to $1.1 billion in 2003. This increase is due primarily to the impact of foreign exchange, the improvement in investment income ($61 million), and 2002 expenses related to the planned spin off ($50 million) with no corresponding amount in 2003. Approximately 68% of Aons 2003 consolidated income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest was from international operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 37% in both 2003 and 2002. The overall effective tax rates are higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily because of state income tax provisions. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased to $676 million ($2.04 per diluted share) from $496 million ($1.75 per diluted share) in 2002. Basic income per share from continuing operations was $2.12 and $1.76 for 2003 and 2002, respectively. In fourth quarter 2002, we had a common stock offering, which increased the number of average common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding. Including the effect of currency hedges, the positive impact of foreign currency translations was approximately $0.12 per share. We have deducted dividends paid for the redeemable preferred stock from net income to compute income per share. In accordance with EITF No. 04 8, 2003 diluted shares outstanding were increased by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% 44 convertible debt securities. After tax interest expense on these debt securities has been added back to income from continuing operations when calculating the diluted income per share. Discontinued Operations After tax losses from our discontinued businesses in 2003 were $48 million ($0.15 and $0.14 per basic and diluted share, respectively). In comparison, losses in 2002 from these discontinued operations were $30 million ($0.11 per both basic and diluted share). The 2003 results include an after tax loss on the revaluation of the automotive finance business of $14 million. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services, Consulting, and Insurance Underwriting (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). Aons operating segments are identified as those that: report separate financial information and are evaluated regularly when we are deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. We attribute revenues to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. Segment revenue includes investment income generated by invested assets of that segment, as well as the impact of related derivatives. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective segments: Our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting businesses invest funds held on behalf of clients and operating funds in short term obligations. In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. Investments underlying interest sensitive capital accumulation insurance liabilities are fixed or floating rate fixed maturity obligations. For this business segment, operating invested assets are approximately equal to average net policy liabilities. Our insurance subsidiaries also have invested assets that exceed net policy liabilities which allow us to maintain solid claims paying ratings. Income from these investments are reflected in Corporate and Other segment revenues. 45 The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Operating segment revenue: (1) Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 5,738 $ 5,593 $ 4,890 Consulting 1,247 1,185 1,046 Insurance Underwriting 3,150 2,883 2,801 Income before income tax: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 629 $ 848 $ 805 Consulting 105 110 122 Insurance Underwriting 254 196 155 Pretax margins: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services 11.0 % 15.2 % 16.5% Consulting 8.4 % 9.3 % 11.7% Insurance Underwriting 8.1 % 6.8 % 5.5% (1)Intersegment revenues of $72 million and $68 million were included in 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Aon is a leader in many sectors of the insurance industry: globally, it is the second largest insurance broker, the largest reinsurance broker and the leading manager of captive insurance companies worldwide. In the U.S., Aon is the largest wholesale broker. These rankings are based on the most recent surveys compiled and reports printed by Business Insurance. Changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry, as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds. More specifically, lower premium rates, or a "soft market," generally result in decreased commission revenues. After the attacks of September 11, 2001, premium rates saw an unprecedented increase. Since late 2003, however, premiums in the property and casualty marketplace have declined. The downward rate trend varies by line of business, area of the world, and when each line of business began its downward trend. This trend may inhibit brokers ability to grow revenues. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services generated approximately 57% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2004. Revenues are generated primarily through: commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies, fees paid by clients, other carrier compensation, and interest income on funds held on behalf of clients. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of: how our clients policy renewals are timed, the net effect of new and lost business, the timing of services provided to our clients, and the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short term interest rates. 46  Our retail brokerage companies operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with many retail insurance brokerage and agency firms, as well as individual brokers and agents and direct writers of insurance coverage. Specifically, this segment: addresses the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of commercial enterprises, professional groups, insurance companies, governments, healthcare providers, and non profit groups, among others; provides affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations and businesses; provides wholesale brokerage, managing underwriting and premium finance services to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients; provides actuarial, loss prevention and administrative services to businesses and consumers; and offers claims management and loss cost management services to insurance companies and firms with self insurance programs. During 2004, we exited most of these activities by completing the sale of our U.K. claims operations in the second quarter of 2004 and our U.S. third party claims administration business in fourth quarter 2004. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage Americas (Brokerage Americas) encompasses our retail and wholesale brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement and captive management services, and premium finance services in North and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage International (Brokerage International) offers similar products and services to the parts of the world not included in Brokerage Americas. Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services (Reinsurance) offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that: enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios, improve capital utilization, and evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide. Claims Services (Claims) offered claims administration and loss cost management services. We exited most of these activities in 2004 by selling our U.S. and U.K. claims administration businesses. Revenue Continuing the trend from late 2003, the insurance market softened further in 2004. Total 2004 Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue was $5.7 billion or 3% over last year. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenue declined 1% over last year as a result of: soft market conditions, reflected in flat organic revenue, a $101 million reduction in revenue from our U.S. and one of our U.K. claims services businesses which were sold during 2004, and a $35 million decline from contingent commissions. 47 This table details Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Brokerage Americas 2,308 $ 2,294 $ 2,101 Brokerage International 2,357 2,074 1,695 Reinsurance 861 873 765 Claims 212 352 329 Total revenue $ 5,738 $ 5,593 $ 4,890 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2004 versus 2003. Year ended December 31, 2004 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Brokerage Americas 1 % 1 % % % % Brokerage International 14 9 1 1 3 Reinsurance (1 ) 4 (1 ) (4 ) Claims (40 ) (27 ) (13 ) Total revenue 3 % 4 % (1 )% % % Brokerage Americas revenue was up 1%, reflecting the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates. Organic revenue growth was zero, reflecting pricing pressures resulting from an overall soft market and lower contingent commission revenue, which was offset by improved retention rates. Brokerage International revenue showed strong improvement as a result of a favorable foreign exchange impact and good organic growth, especially in Asia, France and Italy. Reinsurance revenue decreased because new business growth was more than offset by lower pricing on retained clients, lower renewal business in the Americas, and higher risk retention by clients. Claims revenue was $82 million lower in 2004 compared to 2003 due to the sale of one of our U.K. claims services businesses in January 2004. In addition, revenue declined due to the sale of our U.S. claims services business in November 2004, and lower levels of activity in our U.S. operation during the year. This table shows Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by geographic area and total pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 % of total 2003 % of total 2002 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,379 42 % $ 2,466 44 % $ 2,363 48 % United Kingdom 1,056 18 1,093 20 977 20 Continent of Europe 1,265 22 1,112 20 849 18 Rest of World 1,038 18 922 16 701 14 Total revenue $ 5,738 100 % $ 5,593 100 % $ 4,890 100 % Income before income tax $ 629 $ 848 $ 805 U.S. revenue decreased 4% over 2003 due to lower contingent commissions and declines in our wholesale, premium financing, underwriting management, and claims service businesses. 48 U.K. revenue declined 3%. Excluding the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, revenue would have declined 11%. Both the retail and reinsurance sectors declined, primarily as a result of decreased pricing pressures, higher retention of risk by clients and lower new business. In addition, revenue declined $82 million due to the sale in the first quarter 2004 of one of our U.K. claims services businesses. Continent of Europe revenue increased 14% driven by a favorable foreign currency impact along with strong organic revenue growth in France and Italy. The 13% growth in the Rest of World is driven by a favorable foreign currency impact and growth in Asia. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income decreased $219 million or 26% from 2003 to $629 million, despite the increase in revenue. In 2004, pretax margins in this segment were 11.0%, down from 15.2% in 2003. Our income and margins were affected this year by: a $153 million provision allocation for regulatory settlements resulting from the investigation by the New York AG and other regulatory authorities, a $35 million reduction in contingent commission revenue, additional net periodic pension expense of $39 million, a $34 million provision for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit, premium declines on brokered coverage, and increase in investment income of $13 million. Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. This segment: provides a full range of human capital management services from employee benefits to compensation consulting and generated 12% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2004. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Consulting Services, which provides human capital consulting services in five practice areas: 1.Employee Benefits advises clients about the structure, funding and administration of employee benefit programs which attract, retain and motivate employees. Benefits consulting includes health and welfare, retirement, executive benefits, absence management, compliance, employer commitment, investment advisory and elective benefit services. 2.Compensation focuses on designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option and other pay structures, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries. 3.Management Consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development, and change management. 4.Communications advises clients on how to communicate initiatives that support their corporate vision. 49 5.Strategic Human Resource Consulting advises complex global organizations on talent, change and organization effectiveness issues including assessment, selection performance management, succession planning, organization design and related people management programs. Outsourcing, which offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration and other employment related services. Revenue In 2004, revenues of $1.2 billion increased 5% over 2003. Revenue on an organic basis grew 1% from last year and resulted from growth in U.S. compensation and international practices, especially in Europe, offset by lower revenue in U.S. employee benefits. In connection with our termination of contingent fee arrangements, contingent commissions decreased $2 million from the fourth quarter 2003 compared to the fourth quarter 2004. This table details Consulting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Consulting services $ 949 $ 898 $ 796 Outsourcing 298 287 250 Total revenue $ 1,247 $ 1,185 $ 1,046 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2004 versus 2003. Year ended December 31, 2004 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Consulting services 6 % 4 % % 1 % 1 % Outsourcing 4 3 3 (1 ) (1 ) Total revenue 5 % 4 % 1 % (1 )% 1 % The increase in Consulting services revenue was driven by positive foreign exchange rates and organic revenue growth in U.S. compensation and international operations. Outsourcing revenue is down compared to prior year due mainly to slow employment growth in the U.S. economy. This table shows Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 % of total 2003 % of total 2002 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 754 61 % $ 762 64 % $ 695 67 % United Kingdom 213 17 182 15 160 15 Continent of Europe 162 13 139 12 105 10 Rest of World 118 9 102 9 86 8 Total revenue $ 1,247 100 % $ 1,185 100 % $ 1,046 100 % Income before income tax $ 105 $ 110 $ 122 U.S. revenue decreased in 2004, primarily reflecting lower results in the employee benefits practice. 50 U.K., Continent of Europe and Rest of World revenues rose on favorable currency exchange impacts, organic revenue growth, and the impact of small acquisitions. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income was $105 million. In 2004, pretax margins in this segment were 8.4%, down from 9.3% in 2003. The decline was caused by a $27 million provision allocation for settlements resulting from the investigation by the New York AG and other regulatory authorities, a $6 million accrual for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit, and a $2 million reduction of contingent commission revenue. The legal accruals and loss of contingent commission revenue were partially offset by: favorable foreign exchange rates, improved profitability of the large human resource outsourcing contract initiated in mid 2002, and effective expense management. Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment: provides supplemental accident, health and life insurance coverage mostly through direct distribution networks, primarily through more than 6,800 career insurance agents working for our subsidiaries. Our revenues are affected by our success in attracting and retaining these career agents; provides Medicare supplement and Medicare Advantage policies in the U.S. through a dedicated sales force; offers extended warranty and credit insurance products that are sold through retailers, automotive dealers, insurance agents and brokers, and real estate brokers. Our revenues are affected by the addition and retention of these retailers, dealers, agents and brokers; offers select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis through managing general underwriters, primarily Aon owned companies; administers certain extended warranty services on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and appliances; has operations in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia/Pacific; and generated approximately 31% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2004. We have: expanded product distribution to include affinity groups and worksite marketing, which has created access to new markets and potential new policyholders; implemented a "back to basics" strategy in 2003 which focused on products and regions with predictable cash flows and the best return on investment; announced plans in February 2003 to place in run off our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Latin America. We stopped operations in Argentina, and during 2003, transitioned into run off status in Brazil and Mexico; decided to run off certain non core special risk accident and health business in the U.S. and the U.K. 51 Revenue Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth in this segment; however, reported revenues reflect earned premiums and fees. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Accident & Health and Life, through which we provide an array of accident, sickness, short term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations and are not subject to escalating medical cost inflation; Warranty and Credit, through which we provide warranties on automobiles and a variety of consumer goods, including electronics and appliances. In addition, we provide non structural home warranties and other warranty products, such as credit card enhancements and affinity warranty programs; and Property & Casualty, through which we provide select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis. The table below reflects written and earned premiums and associated reserves: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Written premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,461 $ 1,460 $ 1,519 Warranty and Credit 1,081 986 828 Property & Casualty 264 221 164 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,345 1,207 992 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,806 $ 2,667 $ 2,511 Earned premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,620 $ 1,502 $ 1,494 Warranty and Credit 920 830 733 Property & Casualty 248 217 133 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,168 1,047 866 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,788 $ 2,549 $ 2,360 Policy and Contract Claim Liabilities: Accident & Health and Life $ 422 $ 447 $ 421 Warranty and Credit 211 207 177 Property & Casualty 1,221 955 653 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,432 1,162 830 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 1,854 $ 1,609 $ 1,251 In 2004, revenues of $3.2 billion increased 9% over 2003. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenues rose 5%. This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Accident & health and life $ 1,721 $ 1,594 $ 1,639 Warranty, credit and property & casualty 1,429 1,289 1,162 Total revenue $ 3,150 $ 2,883 $ 2,801 52 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2004 versus 2003. Year ended December 31, 2004 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: All Other(1) Organic Revenue Growth Accident & health and life 8 % 4 % 8 % (4 )% Warranty, credit and property & casualty 11 3 2 6 Total revenue 9 % 4 % 4 % 1 % (1)The difference between written and earned premiums and fees, as a percentage change, was 3% for accident & health, 0% for warranty and 1% for total revenue. In addition, a change in accounting for an insurance contract in the U.S. as a percentage change, was 6% for accident & health and life and 3% for total revenue. Accident & Health and Life revenue grew $127 million or 8% driven by a change in an insurance program for a specialty accident and health line, favorable foreign currency exchange, higher investment income and growth in the core business, partially offset by planned reductions in runoff businesses of $25 million. Warranty, Credit and Property & Casualty revenue grew $140 million or 11% due to improvement in our North American warranty, as well as European auto and warranty programs, growth in the select property and casualty business, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 % of total 2003 % of total 2002 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,108 67 % $ 1,953 68 % $ 2,005 72 % United Kingdom 456 14 460 16 395 14 Continent of Europe 284 9 211 7 159 6 Rest of World 302 10 259 9 242 8 Total revenue $ 3,150 100 % $ 2,883 100 % $ 2,801 100 % Income before income taxes $ 254 $ 196 $ 155 In 2004, U.S. revenue increased as a result of changes in an insurance program for a specialty accident & health line, improvements in accident & health and lifes core business, along with growth in construction group and warranty programs, which more than offset lower results in run off programs. U.K. revenue was lower than last year, despite favorable exchange rates, as a result of lower revenue from a book of U.K. specialty accident and health business that had been placed in runoff, as well as a property & casualty discontinued line of business. Continent of Europe and Rest of World posted significant revenue improvement during the year. This increase is primarily the result of a favorable exchange rate impact, as well as improvements in our European auto and warranty programs. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income of $254 million increased 30% from 2003. Pretax margins rose from 6.8% in 2003 to 8.1% in 2004. 53 Increased pretax income and margin resulted from: $65 million of expense relating to the NPS program in 2003, improved profitability in the traditional lines of accident & health and life, higher investment income of $14 million due to changes in the investment portfolio which increased both duration and returns, positive foreign exchange effects, and profitable growth in North American auto warranty and specialty property & casualty programs. These increases were partially offset by: lower international auto credit results because auto dealerships continue to de emphasize some credit products and declines in U.S. electronic warranty results due to discontinued programs, as well as losses related to a European electronics warranty program. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other segment revenue consists primarily of investment income (including income or loss on investment disposals and other than temporary impairment losses), which is not otherwise reflected in the operating segments. This segment includes: invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting businesses and the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries and related income. Corporate and Other segment revenue includes income from Endurance common stock, which was accounted for under the equity method before the sale of virtually all of our holdings in December 2004, and changes in the valuation of Endurance warrants. Aon carries its investment in Endurance warrants at fair value and records changes in the fair value through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Private equities are principally carried at cost except where Aon has significant influence, in which case they are carried under the equity method. These investments usually do not pay dividends. Limited partnerships (LP) are accounted for under the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying LP investments flow through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Although our portfolios are highly diversified, they still remain exposed to market, equity, and credit risk. We: periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairments, analyze various risk factors and identify any specific asset impairments. If we determine there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value, and review invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. 54 This table shows the components of Corporate and Other revenue and expenses: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Revenue: Income from marketable equity securities and other investments: Income from change in fair value of Endurance warrants $ $ 80 $ Equity earnings Endurance 38 46 21 Other 11 11 10 49 137 31 Limited partnership investments 6 1 14 Interest on tax refund 48 Net gain (loss) on disposals and related expenses: Gain on sale of Endurance stock 48 Impairment write downs (3 ) (36 ) (130 ) Other 9 23 16 54 (13 ) (114 ) Total revenue 109 125 (21 ) Expenses: General expenses 81 61 97 Interest expense 136 101 124 Unusual credits World Trade Center (14 ) Total expenses 217 148 221 Loss before income tax $ (108 ) $ (23 ) $ (242 ) Revenue Corporate and Other revenue decreased by $16 million to $109 million in 2004. The revenue decrease was primarily driven by: an $80 million non cash increase in the value of the Endurance stock warrants recognized in 2003 where previously there had been no value recorded. The value of the Endurance warrants fluctuated during the year, but at year end 2004 remained approximately $80 million. This was mostly offset by: the sale of virtually all of our common stock investment in Endurance resulting in a $48 million gain and lower impairment writedowns of certain fixed maturity and equity investments of $3 million in 2004 versus $36 million in 2003. Loss Before Income Tax Corporate and Other expenses were $69 million or 47% higher than in 2003 as a result of: an increase in interest expense of $35 million primarily due to the adoption at December 31, 2003 of FIN 46. As a result of this adoption, we were required to deconsolidate our trust preferred capital securities, which were offset by an increase in notes payable. Interest expense on these notes payable was $58 million for the year. Absent that item, interest expense declined $23 million due principally to a reduction in U.S. debt levels earlier in 2004; an increase in general expenses of $20 million due in part to increases in compliance costs for the Sarbanes Oxley Act, compensation and occupancy expenses; and 55 a net $14 million credit related to the World Trade Center in 2003 with no corresponding credit in 2004. These revenue and expense comparisons contributed to the overall Corporate and Other pretax loss of $108 million in 2004 versus a pretax loss of $23 million in 2003. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Our routine liquidity needs are primarily for servicing debt and paying dividends on outstanding stock. Our primary source for meeting these requirements is from dividends and internal financing from our operating subsidiaries. Additionally, we fully drew down our long term Euro credit facility to ensure adequate liquidity in the fourth quarter of 2004. After meeting our routine dividend and debt servicing requirements, we used a portion of the remaining funding we received throughout the year for capital expenditures. Our major U.S. insurance subsidiaries statutory capital and surplus at year end 2004 significantly exceeded the risk based capital target set by the NAIC. In the aggregate, our operating subsidiaries anticipate there will be adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. We have used cash flow primarily for dividend payments, business reinvestment, debt reduction, and acquisition financing. Cash on our statements of financial position includes funds available for general corporate purposes. We segregate funds we are holding on behalf of clients and to satisfy policyholder liabilities. The cash payments for the $190 million settlement with the New York AG and other regulatory authorities will be funded through operating cash flow over the following time frame: (millions) Cash to be paid 2005 $ 76 2006 76 2007 38 Total cash payments $ 190 In addition to the New York AG and other regulatory authorities investigations, we are defending various client class action lawsuits. We accrued $40 million for costs and payments to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. In 2004, total cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans were $189 million, a decrease of $28 million from 2003. In 2003, we made a $100 million early contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan. In 2004, we made an early contribution of $18 million for our Netherlands defined benefit pension plan. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate that 2005 contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans will be approximately $202 million. In connection with one of our U.K. pension plans, our principal U.K. subsidiary has agreed with the trustees of the plan to contribute &pound;20 million per year to the plan for six years with the amount payable increasing by 5.3% on each January 1, beginning in 2005. These contributions are in addition to the normal employer contributions to the plan. The trustees of the plan: have certain rights to request that our U.K. subsidiary advance an amount equal to an actuarially determined winding up deficit. As of December 31, 2003, the estimated winding up deficit was &pound;345 million; and have accepted in practice the agreed upon schedule of contributions and have not requested such an advance. 56  At the last valuation date, September 30, 2004, the estimated deficit between the value of the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation, calculated under U.S. GAAP, was &pound;108 million, of which &pound;92 million was recorded as a minimum pension liability. The U.K. pension plans have been closed to new employees since 1999. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations represent the net income we earned in the reported periods adjusted for non cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for twelve months 2004 and 2003 are as follows: (millions) As of December 31, 2004 2003 Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows $ 541 $ 360 Change in funds held on behalf of brokerage and consulting clients (50 ) 200 All other operating cash flows 693 752 Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,184 $ 1,312 Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows Our insurance underwriting operations include accident & health and life, warranty, credit, and property & casualty businesses. These insurance products have distinct differences in the timing of premiums earned and payment of future liabilities. The operating cash flow from our insurance subsidiaries, which also includes related corporate items, was $541 million for 2004 compared to $360 million for 2003. For 2004, operating cash flows, analyzed by major income statement component, indicated that premiums and other fees collected, net of reinsurance, were $3,167 million. Investment income and other miscellaneous income received was $159 million. We used these revenues primarily to pay claims and other cash benefits of $1,382 million, commission and general expenses of $1,325 million, and taxes of $78 million. The comparable 2003 premiums and other fees collected, net of reinsurance, were $2,931 million. Investment income and other miscellaneous income received was $141 million. Payments included claims and other cash benefits of $1,223 million, commission and general expenses of $1,366 million, and taxes of $123 million. We will invest and use operating cash flows to satisfy future benefits to policyholders, and when appropriate, make them available to pay dividends to the Aon parent company (Aon Parent). In second quarter 2004, Combined Insurance Company of America (CICA), one of our major insurance underwriting subsidiaries, declared and made a non cash dividend of $71 million to Aon Parent. Generally, we invest assets supporting policyholder liabilities in highly liquid and marketable investment grade securities. These invested assets are subject to insurance codes set forth by the various governmental jurisdictions in which we operate, both domestically and internationally. The insurance codes restrict both the quantity and quality of various types of assets within the portfolios. Our insurance subsidiaries policy liabilities are segmented among multiple accident and health and property casualty portfolios. Those portfolios have widely varying estimated durations and interest rate characteristics. Generally, policy liabilities are not subject to interest rate volatility disintermediation risk. Therefore, in many of the portfolios, asset and policy liability duration are not closely matched. Interest rate sensitive policy liabilities are generally supported by floating rate assets. 57 Funds held on behalf of clients In our risk and insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, we typically hold funds on behalf of clients as a result of: premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers. These premiums held on behalf of, or due from, clients are reported as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurer. claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. Claims held by, or due to, us, and which are due to clients, are also shown as both assets and liabilities. These funds held on behalf of clients can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect cash from our clients and when premiums are remitted to the insurance carriers. All other operating cash flows The operating cash flow from our risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting segments, as well as related corporate items, was $693 million for 2004 compared to $752 million for the comparable period in 2003. These amounts exclude the change in funds held on behalf of clients from year end of approximately $(50) million in 2004 and $200 million in 2003, as described above. The operating cash flows depend on the timing of receipts and payments related to revenues, incentive compensation, other operating expenses, and income taxes. In 2004, the net decrease in cash from our risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting segments, and related corporate items, of $59 million was primarily affected by the timing of income tax payments, net of refunds. Aon Parent uses the excess cash generated by our brokerage and consulting businesses to meet its liquidity needs, which consist primarily of servicing its debt and for paying dividends to its stockholders. Investing and Financing Activities We used the consolidated cash flow from operations (net of funds held on behalf of clients) of $1.2 billion for: investing activities of $923 million. The cash flows used by investing activities included purchases of investments, net of sales, of $896 million and acquisitions, principally made by our international brokerage operations, of $80 million. Additionally, our investing activities included capital expenditures, net of disposals, of $80 million, and proceeds from the sale of operations of $133 million. financing needs of $266 million. Financing uses included cash dividends paid to shareholders of $192 million, long term debt issuance, net of payments of $3 million, net repayment of short term debt of $49 million, and cash payments of $51 million for interest sensitive, annuity and investment type contracts. During fourth quarter 2004, we fully drew down our long term Euro facility to ensure adequate liquidity prior to replacing both our long term Euro and U.S. credit facilities, which occurred in February 2005. See Note 7 "Debt and Lease Commitments" for further information on our credit facilities. Financial Condition Since year end 2003, total assets increased $1.3 billion to $28.3 billion at December 31, 2004. In 2004, total investments increased $1.3 billion to $8.6 billion from December 31, 2003. Fixed maturities increased $731 million, primarily relating to an asset management program at our insurance underwriting subsidiaries that became effective in 2003, which resulted in a shift from short term to long term investments. Short term investments rose $801 million, primarily as a result of an increase in 58 funds from the sale of our common stock investment in Endurance, as well as the impact of foreign exchange rates. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting receivables decreased $153 million in 2004. Corresponding insurance premiums payable decreased $82 million over the same period. The decrease in receivables and payables reflects: the timing of receipts and payments and the decrease in premium rates across most lines of business. Other assets decreased $223 million from December 31, 2003. Other assets are comprised principally of prepaid premiums related to reinsurance and prepaid pension assets. The decrease from year end 2003 is due to: a reduction of $58 million due to the adoption of SOP 03 1; the conversion of $55 million of life insurance policies to cash; and a reduction in prepaid premiums. Policy liabilities in total, excluding other policyholder funds, increased $501 million, but were partially offset by a corresponding increase in reinsurance receivables (reflected in other receivables). Other policyholder funds decreased $40 million from 2003 due primarily to interest sensitive and deposit type contracts maturing and our decision to stop offering these programs. Our minimum defined benefit pension liability, included in pension, post retirement and post employment liabilities, increased $157 million since last year end. We are required to maintain at plan level, at a minimum, a liability equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. Investments We invest in broad asset categories related to our diversified operations. In managing our investments, our objective is to maximize earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks and regulatory requirements. We maintain well capitalized operating companies. The financial strength of these companies permits a diversified investment portfolio including invested cash, fixed income obligations, public and private equities and limited partnerships. The Corporate and Other segment contains invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income. These insurance assets, which are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and limited partnerships, represent an aggressive investment strategy that gives us an opportunity for greater returns with longer term investments. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies: are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies and are unavailable for other uses such as debt reduction or share repurchases without considering regulatory requirements (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). In December 2001, we securitized $450 million of our LP investments and associated LP commitments, which represented most of our limited partnership investments, via a sale of PEPS I. The securitization gives our underwriting subsidiaries greater liquidity. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our investments. 59 Borrowings Total debt at December 31, 2004 was $2.1 billion, down $31 million from December 31, 2003. Specifically: notes payable increased by $20 million compared to year end 2003. This increase is due to an increase in our long term Euro credit facility of $334 million, mostly offset by retiring $305 million of outstanding domestic debt securities due in January and July 2004. We fully drew down our Euro credit facility to ensure adequate liquidity in the fourth quarter of 2004; and short term debt declined $51 million, reflecting a decrease in foreign borrowings. We have disclosed future payments of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2002, we completed an offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% convertible senior debentures due 2012. The debentures are unsecured obligations and are convertible into our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $21.475 per common share under certain circumstances, including the following: If the closing price of our common stock during any fiscal quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price (i.e. $25.77) for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the previous fiscal quarter. Or Subject to certain exceptions, during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the debentures for each day of the ten trading day period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale price of our common stock and the number of shares issuable upon conversion of $1,000 principal amount of the debentures. Aon has reserved approximately 14 million shares for the potential conversion of these debentures. At December 31, 2004, we had a $775 million unused committed bank credit facility to support commercial paper and other short term borrowings. The three year portion of the facility was for $437.5 million, while the 364 day portion of the facility was for $337.5 million. We replaced the facility in February 2005 with a three year $600 million facility. This facility allows us to issue up to $150 million in letters of credit. We also have several foreign credit facilities available. At December 31, 2004, we had available to us: a long term Euro credit facility of &euro;250 million, or $334 million, which was fully drawn down at year end. This facility was replaced in February 2005 with a new &euro;650 million multi currency facility, which includes a &euro;325 million three year and &euro;325 million five year facility. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on both the U.S. and Euro facilities; a 364 day &pound;45 million facility and a 10 million Canadian dollar facility, both of which expire in September 2005; and a &euro;20 million open ended facility. 60 The major rating agencies ratings of our debt at March 9, 2005 appear in the table below. Senior long term debt Commercial paper Rating Outlook Rating Outlook Standard & Poors BBB+ Negative A 2 Negative Moodys Investor Services Baa2 Stable P 2 Stable Fitch, Inc. BBB+ Negative F 2 Negative In October 2004: Standard & Poors (S&P) lowered its rating on our senior long term debt from "A " to "BBB+" and placed all its ratings for Aon on credit watch with negative implications; and Moodys Investor Services and Fitch, Inc. placed both our senior long term debt and commercial paper ratings on negative outlook and credit watch with negative implications, respectively. In March 2005: Fitch, Inc. lowered its ratings on our senior debt from "A " to "BBB+" and affirmed our commercial paper rating of "F2". Their rating outlook continues to be negative; S&P affirmed its ratings for Aon and removed us from credit watch; and Moodys affirmed its ratings for Aon and changed their outlook from negative to stable. The change in our ratings reflect the rating agencies concern for Aons future earnings and cash flow given the announcement eliminating contingent commission arrangements, the New York AG and other regulatory authorities investigations, and concerns about private litigation. A further downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper will: increase the companys borrowing costs and reduce its financial flexibility. The Companys 6.20% notes due 2007 ($250 million of which are outstanding with a current interest rate of 6.70%) expressly provide for interest rate increases in the case of certain ratings downgrades. Because of the recent downgrade, the interest rate on these notes increased 25 basis points in January 2005 to 6.95%; and increase Aons commercial paper interest rates or may restrict our access to the commercial paper market altogether. Although we have committed backup lines in excess of our current outstanding commercial paper borrowings, we cannot assure that the companys financial position will not be hurt if we can no longer access the commercial paper market. Additional rating changes were as follows: In May 2004, A.M. Best, a major rating agency for our insurance company subsidiaries, changed its ratings for our two major insurance subsidiaries as follows: CICA from "A" stable outlook to "A" negative outlook; Virginia Surety Company from "A" stable outlook to "A " stable outlook. In August 2004, Moodys Investor Services raised its rating for CICA from "Baa1" stable outlook to "A3" stable outlook. In October 2004, Fitch, Inc. lowered its rating for CICA from "A " stable outlook to "A " negative outlook. 61 Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $605 million during 2004 to $5.1 billion, primarily reflecting: $546 million of net income before preferred dividends and a $146 million (after tax) foreign exchange benefit. These equity increases were partially offset by dividends paid to stockholders of $192 million. Accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased $180 million since December 31, 2003. Compared to year end 2003: net foreign exchange improved by $146 million because of the weakening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, net derivative losses increased $10 million, and net unrealized investment gains rose $42 million. In past years, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the U.K., incurred losses due to reduced actuarial return assumptions. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require a company to maintain, at a minimum, a liability on its balance sheet equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. At year end 2004, the change in pension obligation caused a $2 million (after tax) increase to stockholders equity. We maintain the related pension plan assets in separate trust accounts; they are not part of our consolidated financial statements. This non cash adjustment to other comprehensive income did not affect 2004 net income. For 2005, we project: our pension expense for our major defined benefit plans will be $251 million. This expense was significantly affected by a lower discount rate; and cash contributions to the major defined benefit pension plans will be $202 million. Our total debt and preferred securities as a percentage of total capital is 29.8% at December 31, 2004, compared to 32.8% at year end 2003. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We record various contractual obligations as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but we are required to disclose them. Aon and its subsidiaries have issued letters of credit to cover contingent payments of approximately $21 million for taxes and other business obligations to third parties. We accrue amounts in our consolidated financial statements for these letters of credit to the extent they are probable and estimable. As discussed below, we use special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities ("QSPEs"), also known as special purpose vehicles, in some of our operations, following the guidance of FASB Statement No. 140 and other relevant accounting guidance. Premium Financing Certain of our subsidiaries make short term loans (generally with terms of 12 months or less) to businesses to finance insurance premiums and then sell ("securitize") the finance receivables through securitization transactions that meet the criteria for sale accounting in accordance with FASB Statement 62 No. 140. These premium financing securitizations are accomplished by using special purpose entities which are considered QSPEs pursuant to Statement No. 140 and FIN 46, and commercial paper multi seller, non qualified bank conduit SPEs. Statement No. 140 provides that a QSPE should not be consolidated in the financial statements of a transferor or its affiliates (Aons subsidiaries). Premium financing securitizations performed by our U.S., U.K., Canadian and Australian subsidiaries use multi seller non qualified SPEs. By analyzing the qualitative and quantitative factors of the SPEs, we have determined that these subsidiaries are not the sponsors of the SPEs. Additionally, independent third parties: have made substantial equity investments in the SPEs, have voting control of the SPEs, and generally have the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets of the SPEs. Based on these factors and before the adoption of FIN 46, we had determined that non consolidation was the appropriate accounting treatment. With the adoption of FIN 46 as of December 31, 2003, we have determined that our subsidiaries do not have a significant variable interest in the SPEs, and therefore, we have concluded that non consolidation continues to be appropriate. Through the premium financing agreements, we or one of our QSPEs sells undivided interests in specified premium finance receivables to the independent SPEs. Under the terms of these agreements, new receivables increase the amounts available to securitize as collections (administered by Aon) and reduce previously sold receivables. The amount advanced from third parties at any one time under the accounts receivable sales agreement is limited to a maximum of $2 billion. At both December 31, 2004 and 2003, $1.8 billion was advanced under these programs from the SPEs. We record at fair value the retained interest, which is included in insurance brokerage and consulting services receivables in the consolidated statements of financial position. Aon recorded gains associated with the sale of receivables. When we calculated the gain, we included all fees we incurred related to this facility. The gains included in revenue in the consolidated statements of income, were $81 million, $69 million and $70 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We retain servicing rights for sold receivables and earn a servicing fee as income over the servicing period. The servicing fees are included in the gain/loss calculation. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the fair value of the servicing rights approximates the estimated costs to service the receivables, and accordingly, Aon has not recorded any servicing assets or liabilities related to this servicing activity. We estimate fair value by discounting estimated future cash flows from the servicing rights and servicing costs using: discount rates that approximate current market rates and expected future prepayment rates. The SPEs bear the credit risks on the receivables, subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves, which we guarantee. Under the guarantee provisions, our maximum cash requirement was approximately $73 million at December 31, 2004. We renewed the U.S. and European facilities in December 2004 and in January 2005, we eliminated the percentage guarantee for the European facility, replacing it with other collateral enhancements. In April 2005, we will do the same for the U.S. facility. 63 Both facilities require Aon to maintain consolidated net worth, as defined, of at least $2.5 billion, and: consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to consolidated net interest of at least 4 to 1, and consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA of no more than 3 to 1. We intend to renew these conduit facilities when they expire. If there were adverse bank, regulatory, tax or accounting rule changes, our access to the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be restricted. These special purpose vehicles are not included in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the appropriate accounting standards. PEPS I On December 31, 2001, we sold the vast majority of our LP portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company, owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which we do not control, established for victims of the September 11th attacks (51%). PEPS I sold approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities to unaffiliated third parties. It then paid our insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and issued them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. Standard & Poors Ratings Services rated the fixed maturity securities our subsidiaries received from PEPS I as investment grade. As part of this transaction, the insurance companies had been required to purchase from PEPS I additional fixed maturity securities in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. In 2004, Aons insurance underwriting subsidiaries funded $13 million of commitments. Beginning in July 2004, Aon Parent assumed this responsibility. Aon Parent funded $7 million of commitments in 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the unfunded commitments amounted to $60 million. These commitments have specific expiration dates and the general partners may decide not to draw on these commitments. Based on the rating agencies downgrade of Aons senior debt credit rating in October 2002, we purchased credit support agreements in January 2003, and as a result, $100 million of CICAs cash has been pledged as collateral for these commitments. During second quarter 2004, the balance of the collateral, $59 million, was paid as a dividend to Aon Parent. Given the current ratings of Aon, CICA and Virginia Surety Corporation, the collateral was no longer required. As such, the collateral account was liquidated in December 2004 and the funds returned to Aons operating cash. Subsequent to closing the securitization, one of our insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. In second quarter 2004, CICA paid dividends to Aon Parent of $12 million in fixed maturities securities. We have not included the assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I in our consolidated financial statements. In previous years, Aon has recognized other than temporary impairment writedowns of $59 million, equal to the original cost of one tranche. The preferred stock interest represents a beneficial interest in securitized limited partnership investments. The fair value of the private preferred stock interests depends on the value of the limited partnership investments held by PEPS I. Management assesses other than temporary declines in the fair value below cost using a financial model that considers the: value of the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I and nature and timing of the cash flows from the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I. 64 Combined Global Funding In 1998, CICA, an Aon subsidiary, formed Combined Global Funding, LLC, a Cayman Islands based SPE, to issue notes to investors under a European Medium Term Note Program (EMTN). We used the proceeds of the notes to purchase funding agreement policies issued by CICA. The contract terms of the funding agreement mirror the terms of the trust medium term notes. Historically, CICA has consolidated the SPE based on the guidance in ARB 51 and EITF Topic D 14; more specifically, we have: classified the EMTNs as a policyholder liability in our consolidated financial statements rather than as notes payable, given that the liquidation preference of the underlying debt more closely resembled the characteristics of a policyholder liability; and included the interest expense on the EMTNs in benefits to policyholders in the consolidated statements of income. The amount of EMTNs outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $18 million and $50 million, respectively. In 2005, the remaining outstanding EMTN and the corresponding funding agreement are scheduled to be redeemed. After the adoption of FIN 46, Aon determined that the SPE is a variable interest entity, and CICA is not the primary beneficiary, because CICA does not have a variable interest in the SPE. As a result, CICA was required to deconsolidate the trust on December 31, 2003. There was no effect on the consolidated statements of financial position or income statements as a result of this deconsolidation, as the funding agreement liability between CICA and the SPE is now classified as a policyholder liability. Contractual Obligations The following table: summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2004 and the future periods during which we expect to settle these obligations in cash. reflects the timing of principal payments on outstanding borrowings. 65 We have provided additional details about these obligations in our footnotes to the financial statements as noted below. Payments due by period (millions) Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 Years More than 5 years Total Notes Payable and Short term Borrowings (Note 7) $ 594 $ 263 $ 2 $ 1,258 $ 2,117 Interest Expense on Notes Payable 116 187 169 1,058 1,530 Operating Leases (Note 7) 345 555 403 777 2,080 Redeemable Preferred Stock (Note 10) (1) 50 50 Other Policyholder Funds 18 18 Purchase Obligations (2)(3) 223 298 202 132 855 Insurance Premiums Payable 10,100 17 3 1 10,121 Future Policy Benefits 41 101 128 1,272 1,542 Policy and Contract Claims 772 290 154 638 1,854 New York AG and Other Regulatory Authorities Settlement (4) 76 114 190 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet under GAAP 3 7 3 8 21 Total $ 12,288 $ 1,832 $ 1,064 $ 5,194 $ 20,378 (1)Shares are redeemable at the option of Aon or the holders beginning one year after the occurrence of a certain future event, which occurred in September 2004. (2)Included in purchase obligations is a $517 million contract for information technology outsourcing with Computer Sciences Corporation. We are free to terminate this contract at any time for an amount calculated per the contract. However, given the nature of the contract, we have included it in our contractual obligations table. (3)Also included in purchase obligations is a $179 million contract for information technology services in the U.K. As of December 31, 2004, we can exit this obligation for approximately $25 million. However, given the nature of the contract, we have included it in our contractual obligations table. (4)The $180 million net present value of this liability has been reflected on the December 31, 2004 balance sheet in other liabilities. We also have obligations with respect to our pension and other benefit plans (see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements as well as our discussion on liquidity above). Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. To manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. Aon does not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading purposes. The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. Please see the discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives in Notes 1 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our primary exposures are to the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar. We use over the counter (OTC) options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign operations. 66 Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiary earns approximately 31% of its revenue in U.S. dollars, but the majority of its expenses are incurred in pounds sterling. Our policy is to convert into pounds sterling sufficient U.S. dollar revenue to fund the subsidiarys pound sterling expenses using over the counter (OTC) options and forward exchange contracts. At December 31, 2004, we have hedged 89%, 67% and 52% of our U.K. subsidiaries expected U.S. dollar transaction exposure for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We do not generally hedge exposures beyond three years. The impact to 2004 and 2003 pretax income in the event of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the respective quoted year end exchange rates would not be material given derivative positions. The nature of the income of our businesses is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical, instantaneous parallel decrease in the period end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $10 million and $9 million to 2004 and 2003 pretax income, respectively. The valuation of our fixed maturity portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% (100 basis point) increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2004 and 2003 by approximately $119 million and $90 million, respectively. We have notes payable and preferred securities outstanding with a fair value of $2.3 billion at both December 31, 2004 and 2003. This fair value was greater than the carrying value by $165 million and $234 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 5% and 7% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The valuation of our marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $4 million at both December 31, 2004 and 2003. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. PEPS I In December 2001, Aon securitized $450 million of limited partnership investments, plus associated limited partnership commitments, via a sale to PEPS I. Aon received $171 million in cash plus $279 million of newly issued fixed maturity and preferred stock securities of PEPS I. The underlying equity in the limited partnerships was the basis for determining the fair value of the cash and securities received in the securitization. At December 31, 2004, a 10% or 20% decrease in the underlying equity of the limited partnerships would have resulted in a decrease in the value of the preferred stock securities owned by $33 million and $67 million, respectively. We have selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity market prices to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. We believe that these changes in rates and prices are reasonably possible within a one year period. 67   
 
