Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Managements Discussion and Analysis is organized as follows: I. OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Executive Summary of 2005 Financial Results II. KEY RECENT EVENTS Restructuring and Other Business Reorganization Initiatives Investigation by the New York Attorney General and Other Regulatory Authorities Sale and Strategic Analysis of Certain Businesses New Chief Executive Officer Stock Repurchase Program III. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Restructuring Pensions Contingencies Policy Liabilities Valuation of Investments Intangible Assets IV. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General Summary Results for 2003 through 2005 Consolidated Results for 2005 Compared to 2004 Consolidated Results for 2004 Compared to 2003 Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2005 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2004 V. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Consulting Insurance Underwriting Corporate and Other VI. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Cash Flows Financial Condition Investments Borrowings Stockholders Equity Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 23  OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Segments The key drivers of financial performance vary among our segments. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services. Brokerage segment results are affected by a number of key drivers, including: conditions in insurance markets generally (particularly fluctuations in premiums charged by insurance companies) success attracting and keeping clients fluctuations in foreign exchange rates interest income on our investments expense management retention of employees. In addition, in 2005 and 2004, this segment was affected by matters discussed under "Key Recent Events Investigation by the New York Attorney General (NYAG) and Other Regulatory Authorities" and our related decision to terminate contingent commission arrangements. Consulting. Consulting segment results are principally affected by: our clients employment levels, which are driven mainly by economic conditions governmental regulations affecting the health care market, employee benefit programs and our clients respective industries our success attracting and keeping clients expense management retention of employees. In addition, in 2005 and 2004, this segment was also affected by the matters discussed under "Key Recent Events Investigation by the New York Attorney General (NYAG) and Other Regulatory Authorities" and our related decision to terminate contingent commission arrangements. Insurance Underwriting. Underwriting segment results are affected by: consumer buying habits, which are influenced by economic conditions competition with other underwriters (including competition based upon claims paying ratings) our success selling new policies, selling existing policyholders more services and having customers renew their policies the effectiveness and collectability of our reinsurance contracts, particularly in programs where we serve as the fronting company, ceding substantially all risk our investment results. Corporate and Other. The key drivers of results in this segment are investment income and debt financing costs. 24 Liquidity Liquidity is derived from cash flows from our business, excluding funds held on behalf of clients and from financing. We use liquidity for capital expenditures, to repay debt, to fund acquisitions and pension obligations, to repurchase shares and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because we are a holding company, our subsidiaries may not have available cash to pay us dividends; in the case of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, this ability is limited by regulatory and rating agency considerations. Our access to cash generated from operations outside the U.S. may be affected by tax considerations and by pension funding requirements in our international pension plans. Executive Summary of 2005 Financial Results Our revenues from continuing operations were down 1% or $94 million compared to 2004 due to: the loss of $100 million in contingent commissions compared to 2004. In 2004, we sold virtually all of our investment in Endurance common stock, although we continue to hold Endurance warrants. In 2004, we recognized a $48 million pretax gain from selling the stock, plus $38 million from our equity investment. In 2005, we recognized a $10 million pretax gain from the change in the fair value of the warrants. The absence of $212 million of claim services revenue, principally from our Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. ("Cambridge") business, which we sold late in 2004. This more than offset improved operating results, principally in our U.S. retail brokerage business. These factors more than offset higher revenues generated by our core brokerage businesses, especially in the U.S. Organic revenue growth (which adjusts revenue growth for the effects of foreign exchange and other factors) was flat for the year. Excluding contingent commissions, organic revenue growth was 1%. Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax and minority interest increased $138 million from 2004. The primary drivers for this change were: During the first quarter of 2005, we settled investigations with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities. We recorded expenses of $180 million related to this settlement in our 2004 results. The accretion of the discount on this settlement resulted in an expense of $5 million in 2005. We also incurred an expense of $40 million related to the Daniel class action lawsuit in 2004. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, we began a corporate wide restructuring effort, including workforce reductions and office closures. As a result of this effort, we incurred $158 million in severance expenses, lease consolidation costs, asset impairments and other associated costs. The net impact of activity involving our Endurance investment reduced 2005 pretax income by $75 million. The remaining increase is primarily attributable to effectively managing our costs. Income from discontinued operations included a $239 million pretax gain resulting from the fourth quarter sale of our Swett & Crawford operation. The goodwill allocated to Swett & Crawford was not tax deductible, resulting in a high effective tax rate for the transaction. We continue to do a better job of generating and managing our cash and investments. More specifically, we: are managing our cash to improve our debt to capital ratio, fund our pension plans and increase our return on assets. The decrease in our cash balance of $94 million reflects $463 million of pension contributions, a $76 million payment to the settlement fund for the NYAG investigation 25 (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements) and $25 million to repurchase outstanding common stock. These cash decreases were offset by increases in our operating cash flow and cash received from the sale of Swett & Crawford. are aggressively restructuring our businesses to reflect changes in our industry. We anticipate these efforts will generate approximately $180 million in annualized cash savings by 2008. paid down $12 million of total debt in 2005. We paid down $250 million of domestic long term debt that was scheduled to be redeemed this year. That decrease was mostly offset by an increase in borrowings at our foreign subsidiaries, in part to offset earnings repatriated to the U.S. All of Aons financial information reflects the application of critical accounting policies, estimates, assumptions and judgments, as discussed below under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." These items are discussed further in the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis. KEY RECENT EVENTS Restructuring and Other Business Reorganization Initiatives Plan Summary In August 2005, we announced that we were reviewing the revenue potential and cost structure of each of our businesses. As a result of this review, we adopted restructuring initiatives and currently expect these initiatives to result in cumulative pretax charges totaling $262 million over a three year period, of which we have incurred $158 million. Expected restructuring costs include workforce reductions and lease consolidation costs, asset impairments and other expenses. We expect the remaining expenses to affect our continuing operations through the end of 2007. We anticipate that these initiatives will lead to annualized cost savings of approximately $180 million by 2008. The 2005 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in the elimination of 1,800 job positions and space consolidation in certain locations. Office closures will require that we recognize losses on subleases or lease buy outs and may also trigger asset impairments. See the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section for detailed information on significant judgments and estimates, key assumptions and relevant accounting guidance related to our accounting for restructuring costs. The following chart details the restructuring and related expenses incurred in 2005 and estimated for 2006 and 2007 by geographic region: (millions) United States United Kingdom Continent of Europe Rest of World Total 2005 $ 28 $ 92 $ 30 $ 8 $ 158 2006 estimated 25 44 10 2 81 2007 estimated 12 11 23 Total incurred and remaining estimated $ 65 $ 147 $ 40 $ 10 $ 262 26 The following chart is a summary of the 2005 restructuring costs and estimated restructuring and related expenses by type through the end of 2007. Actual Estimated (1) (millions) Third Quarter 2005 Fourth Quarter 2005 Total 2005 Full Year 2006 Full Year 2007 Total Workforce reduction $ 2 $ 114 $ 116 $ 33 $ 8 $ 157 Lease consolidation 15 5 20 31 6 57 Asset impairments 15 2 17 2 4 23 Other related expenses 3 2 5 15 5 25 Total restructuring and related expenses $ 35 $ 123 $ 158 $ 81 $ 23 $ 262 (1)Our estimated costs are forward looking and should be read in connection with our risk factors. Actual costs may vary due to changes in the assumptions built into this plan. Some of the assumptions likely to change when plans are finalized and approved include changes in severance calculations, the assumptions underlying our sublease loss calculations due to changing market conditions and our overall analysis that might cause us to add or cancel component initiatives. Year to date, restructuring and related expenses amounted to $158 million, which include: $116 million in workforce reduction costs. $20 million in lease consolidation costs, mostly reflecting leases terminated or abandoned in the U.S. and the U.K. $17 million in asset impairments, of which $13 million related to an automated client renewal software program in the U.K. that was abandoned as part of our restructuring efforts. $5 million in other related expenses, which represents fees paid to outside parties for work related to the restructuring. Performance objective of restructuring initiative We are restructuring to improve our profitability through operational efficiency. We project that our savings, net of restructuring expenses, will become positive by 2006, with a targeted annualized savings of approximately $180 million by 2008. However, we cannot guarantee that we will achieve the targeted savings given the factors discussed in the note to the preceding table. Investigation by the New York Attorney General (NYAG) and Other Regulatory Authorities In March 2005, we settled regulatory investigations for $190 million with the NYAG and other state regulatory authorities. In the settlement, we agreed not to seek or accept indemnification pursuant to any insurance policy or other reimbursement with respect to any amounts payable under the Settlement Agreement. The settlement had two significant effects on our operations: (1)Our revenue was $100 million lower in 2005 than 2004 because we terminated contingent commission arrangements. (2)The impact of the March 2005 settlement was included in our 2004 operations. Since the settlement amount was fixed and determinable, we discounted the liability to the net present value of the payments based on our incremental borrowing rate, following Accounting Principle Boards (APB) Opinion No. 21. This discount is reflected in the $10 million difference between the 27 settlement amount of $190 million and the expense of $180 million. $5 million of the discount was accreted in 2005 and the remainder will accrete into our financial statements as outlined below. Below is a summary of the expense and cash payments we have incurred and that we are scheduled to incur because of the settlement. (millions) Incurred expense Cash payment 2004 $ 180 $ 2005 5 76 2006 4 76 2007 1 38 Total settlement cost $ 190 $ 190 Below is a summary of our liability for the settlement as of December 31, 2004, changes during the year and the ending liability as of December 31, 2005. (millions) Balance as of December 31, 2004 $ 180 Accretion of discount 5 Cash payment to settlement fund (76 ) Balance as of December 31, 2005 $ 109 Sale and Strategic Analysis of Certain Businesses During 2003, 2004 and 2005, we sold certain businesses, including: our U.S. wholesale brokerage business, Swett & Crawford our U.K. claims services businesses a small non core consulting subsidiary our U.K. reinsurance brokerage runoff unit a small U.S. brokerage unit our automotive finance servicing business, which had been in run off since first quarter 2001. In addition, at December 31, 2005, we were in the process of selling a small non core brokerage business in Australia. We completed the transaction in January 2006. 28 We have classified the operating results of all of these businesses as discontinued operations and reclassified prior years operating results to discontinued operations, as follows: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 193 $ 274 $ 359 Pretax income (loss): Operations $ (6 ) $ 33 $ 4 Gain (loss) 236 (23 ) (23 ) Total $ 230 $ 10 $ (19 ) After tax income (loss): Operations $ (6 ) $ 19 $ Gain (loss) 101 (18 ) (14 ) Total $ 95 $ 1 $ (14 ) See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, "Disposal of Operations," for further information. In November 2004, we sold our Cambridge claims administration business to Scandent Holdings Mauritius Limited ("SHM") for $90 million in cash plus convertible preferred stock in SHM, valued at $15 million. Because of our convertible preferred stock holding and other factors, we included Cambridges results before the sales effective date, as well as a pretax gain on the sale of $15 million, in income from continuing operations. From time to time, we explore strategic alternatives for our various businesses. In fourth quarter 2005, we announced that we were exploring alternatives to our ownership of our warranty, credit and property and casualty businesses to determine if the potential of these businesses can be more fully realized under different ownership. New Chief Executive Officer In April 2005, we announced that Gregory C. Case had become our president and chief executive officer, effective immediately. Mr. Case was also elected to our Board of Directors. He succeeds Patrick G. Ryan, who had served as Aons CEO since the companys founding. Mr. Ryan continues to serve as Executive Chairman of the Aon Board of Directors. Stock Repurchase Program In November 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of Aons common stock. Any repurchased common stock will be available for employee stock plans and for other corporate purposes. From time to time, we may purchase shares through the open market or in privately negotiated transactions based on prevailing market conditions, which will be funded from available capital. During fourth quarter 2005, we repurchased 675,000 shares for $25 million. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Aons consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect: what we report as our assets and liabilities what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements 29 the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. In accordance with our policies, we: regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those concerning revenue recognition, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves and policy and contract claim reserves), restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used to prepare these consolidated financial statements. Restructuring Restructuring costs are expensed as incurred in accordance with FASB Statement No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits and FASB Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Statement No. 146 applies to one time workforce reduction benefits and requires companies to use Statement No. 112 when severance is paid under an ongoing severance policy. Lease consolidation costs, asset impairments and other costs associated with restructuring are accounted for under Statement No. 146 and FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Workforce reduction costs We account for workforce reduction costs that result from an ongoing severance plan under Statement No. 112. Such instances occur when (1) we have an established severance policy, (2) statutory requirements dictate the severance amounts, or (3) we have an established pattern of paying by a specific formula. We estimate our one time workforce reduction costs related to exit and disposal activities not resulting from an ongoing severance plan based on the benefits available to the employees being terminated. We recognize these costs when we: identify the specific classification (or functions) and locations of the employees being terminated notify the employees who might be included in the termination expect to terminate employees within the legally required notification period. When employees are receiving incentives to stay beyond the legally required notification period, we spread the entire cost of their severance over the remaining service period. Lease consolidation costs Where we have provided notice of cancellation pursuant to a lease agreement or abandoned space and have no intention of reoccupying it, we recognize a loss. The loss reflects our best estimate of the net present value of the future cash flows associated with the lease at the date we vacate the property or sign a sublease arrangement. To determine the loss, we make assumptions about the time period over which the building will remain vacant and the sublease terms. 30 We estimate sublease income based on current market quotes for similar properties. When we finalize definitive agreements with the sublessee, we adjust our sublease losses for actual outcomes. Fair value concepts of severance arrangements and sublease losses Accounting guidance requires that our exit and disposal accruals reflect the fair value of the liability. Where material, we discount back sublease loss calculations to arrive at their net present value. Most workforce reductions happen over a short span of time, so no discounting is necessary. However, we discount the severance arrangement when we terminate an employee who will provide no future service and we pay their severance over an extended period. Accretion of the discount occurs over the remaining life of the liability. For the remaining lease term or severance payout, we decrease the liability for payments and increase the liability for accretion of the discount. The discount reflects our incremental borrowing rate, which matches the lifetime of the liability. Other associated costs of exit and disposal activities We recognize other restructuring costs as they are incurred, including moving costs and consulting and legal fees. Asset impairments may result from large scale restructurings and we account for these impairments in the period when they become known. Furthermore, we record impairments in accordance with Statement No. 144 by: reducing the book value to the net present value of future cash flows (in situations where the asset had an identifiable cash flow stream) or accelerating the depreciation to reflect the revised useful life. Income statement classification of restructuring expenses As we incur restructuring expenses, we classify them in our income statement in these categories: general expenses includes workforce reduction and lease consolidation costs, along with other costs, and depreciation and amortization expense includes asset impairments. Pensions U.S. Plans The U.S. pension plans are closed to new employees. All employees hired after 2003 participate in a defined contribution plan. Over time, this change will reduce the volatility inherent in the accounting for the U.S. pension plans. Aon uses a market related valuation of assets to calculate pension expense. This valuation reflects a five year average of the difference between the expected return on plan assets and the actual market value return. The prior year market related value is projected to the current date by adjusting for contributions, benefit payments and expected returns. The asset gain or loss is the difference between the expected return on assets and the actual return on assets. Twenty percent of the asset gain or loss is recognized in the current years market related value, with the remaining eighty percent spread evenly over the next four years. 31 As of year end 2005, the market related value of assets does not yet reflect accumulated asset losses of $69 million. These losses will increase pension expense as they are graded into the market related asset value and may be offset by future asset gains. As of year end 2005, we reported a fair value of pension assets of $1,326 million, while the market related value of assets is $1,395 million. The Company contributed $300 million to the major U.S. pension plan during 2005 to strengthen the funding of the program. Under FASB Statement No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, the full gain or loss on assets and obligations is not recorded as expense in the current period. Statement No. 87 allows changes in the projected benefit obligation and market value of assets to be deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense over several years, based on the average expected future service of active employees, which is currently nine years. Gains and losses on pension obligations include the net effects of changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions, as well as demographic changes in the employee data. For the 2005 valuation year, the pension plans have a combined deferred loss of $623 million (comprised of unrecognized asset losses of $69 million and other than deferred asset losses of $554 million) that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the non asset losses of $554 million outside of a corridor, over about nine years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the market related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2006, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is projected to be $46 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. To determine future pension expense, we currently assume a long term rate of return of approximately 8.4%. This expected long term return was based on capital market expectations for various asset classes (see following table). U.S. equities and fixed income expectations were built using a theoretical Capital Asset Pricing ("CAP") Model. The CAP Model included three factors for equities: current dividend yield (1.6%); corporate earnings nominal growth (7.2%); and P/E ratio repricing (0.0%). The 5.8% fixed income expectation factor included the then current 10 year U.S. Treasury Note yields and simulations of future yields based on expected inflation and other factors. Other asset classes expectations were based on risk premiums relative to U.S. equities and fixed income expected returns. Estimates of volatilities and correlations among asset classes were based on historical data. We then weight the expected returns for each asset class by the plans target allocation. This table shows the result of the calculation based on the target asset allocation for year end 2005. The actual return for the 2005 valuation year of 11.8% was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Target Allocation Expected Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate of Return Equities 80% Domestic equities 45 8.8 % 4.0 % Limited partnerships and other 15 10.2 1.5 International equities 15 8.8 1.3 Real estate and REITs 5 7.1 0.4 Debt Securities 20 Fixed maturities 20 5.8 1.2 Invested cash No Target 2.4 Total 8.4 % 32  There are several assumptions that impact the actuarial calculation of pension obligations and, in turn, net periodic pension expense in accordance with Statement No. 87. These assumptions require various degrees of judgment. The most significant assumptions are: the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate. The same assumptions are used for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans where applicable. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase our estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $42 million and the estimated 2006 postretirement medical benefit expense by approximately $0.3 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the 2006 estimated pension expense by approximately $35 million and the postretirement medical benefit expense by approximately $0.2 million. Similarly, holding other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $14 million and increase in the estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease pension expense by approximately $14 million. Required cash contributions are also sensitive to assumptions, however the assumptions used to determine contributions to the plan are changed infrequently. We anticipate cash funding requirements of $6 million in 2006. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate funding requirements of $199 million in 2007. Legislation being considered in Congress may reduce the 2007 requirement to $43 million if passed. Pension reform legislation may further change this requirement. Major U.K. Plans The U.K. pension plans are closed to new entrants and all employees hired after 1999 become participants in a defined contribution plan. As with the U.S. plans, this change will reduce the volatility inherit in the accounting for U.K. pension plans. The other international plans and the U.K. plans are solely obligations of Aon Corporation subsidiaries. For the 2005 valuation year, the major U.K. pension plans have a combined deferred loss (from asset and liability experience) of $1,629 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the accumulated loss outside of a corridor over 16 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2006, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $79 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. To determine pension expense, the fair market value of plan assets is used. Generally, the U.K. plans trustees determine the investment policy for each plan. In total, at the end of the 2005 valuation year, the plans were invested 61% in equities, 34% in fixed income securities and 5% in real estate with a fair value of $2,593 million. In determining the expected rate of return, investment community forecasts and current market conditions were analyzed to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plans. Consideration was given to historic performance data by asset class over long periods. The expected returns for each asset class were then weighted by actual asset allocations of the plans. To determine future pension expense, a long term rate of return of 7.1% was assumed. 33 This table shows the result of the calculation based on the target asset allocation as of year end 2005. Since there are six major pension plans maintained in the U.K., the Target Allocation represents a weighted average of the target allocation of each plan. Further, target allocations are subject to change. The actual return for the 2005 valuation year of 19% was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Target Allocation Historical Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate of Return Equities 65% U.K. equities 39 8.4 % 3.3 % Non U.K. equities 22 8.4 1.8 Property 4 7.9 0.3 Debt Securities 35 Corporate bonds 19 5.0 1.0 Government bonds 16 4.3 0.7 Invested cash 4.0 Total 7.1 % With respect to U.K. pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $55 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $60 million. Similarly, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $26 million and increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $26 million. At year end 2005, a U.K. pension plan had a prepaid pension asset of $16 million. In the future, if the funded status of the plan deteriorates, this amount could be reflected in a minimum pension liability, which would reduce stockholders equity. Cash flow requirements are also sensitive to assumptions, however, assumptions used for funding the U.K. plans are changed infrequently. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate U.K. funding requirements of $159 million in both 2006 and 2007. These contributions reflect minimum funding requirements plus other amounts agreed to with the trustees of the U.K. plans. Dutch Plan To determine pension expense, we use the fair market value of plan assets that, at year end 2005, amounted to $349 million. At the end of 2005, the Dutch pension plan has a combined deferred loss of $108 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the accumulated loss outside of a corridor over 20 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. For 2006, the estimated amortization amount to be recognized in expense is $3 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, the incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense in a similar manner until fully amortized. 34 The target asset allocation is 35% equities and 65% fixed income securities, with an allowed deviation of 5%. At year end 2005, the actual asset allocation was consistent with the target allocation. The expected long term rate of return is 6%, which results from an expected future return of 8% on equities and a 5% return on fixed income investments. With respect to Dutch pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated discount rate would increase the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $7 million and increase in our estimated discount rate would decrease the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $5 million. A one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $4 million and increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease the estimated 2006 pension expense by approximately $4 million. At year end 2005, the Dutch pension plan had a prepaid pension asset of $100 million. In the future, if the funded status of the plan deteriorates, this amount could be reflected in a minimum pension liability, which would reduce stockholders equity. Contingencies We define a contingency as any material condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved. Under GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for contingencies when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual issue. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each issue, or changes in approach, such as changing our settlement strategy. Policy Liabilities Through our insurance underwriting operations, we collect premiums from policyholders and we establish liabilities (reserves) to pay benefits to policyholders. The liabilities for policy benefits, claims and unearned premiums are a large portion of the total policy liabilities shown on our balance sheet and are comprised primarily of estimated future payments to policyholders, policy and contract claims and unearned and advance premiums and contract fees. Accident & Health and Life To establish policy liabilities, we develop estimates of reported and anticipated claims, based on our historical experience, other actuarial data and assumptions on investment yields. We base interest rate assumptions on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality, morbidity, persistency and interest rate assumptions are set when we issue new insurance policies, we may need to provide for additional losses on a product by increasing reserves, reducing previously capitalized acquisition costs established for that product, or establishing premium deficiency reserves if there are significant changes in our experience or assumptions. Since estimating and establishing policy and contract liabilities is inherently uncertain, the actual ultimate cost of a claim may vary materially from the estimated amount reserved. Liabilities for incurred but unpaid claims include estimated costs relating to incurred and reported claims and incurred but not reported claims. We base the liability for unpaid claims on the estimated 35 ultimate cost of settling claims using best estimates of past experience. These estimates reflect current trends and any other factors that influence historical data. Actual experience, however, may vary from our estimates, due to changes in claim reporting, processing patterns and variations from historic averages for the amount paid per claim. Variations from historic patterns and averages could result in additional changes that increase or decrease unpaid claim liabilities. As of December 31, 2005, there were no known changes in reporting or processing patterns. Except for products that meet the definition of FASB Statement No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, we accrue a liability for future policy benefits relating to long duration contracts when we recognize premium revenue. The liability represents the present value of future benefits to be paid to policyholders less the present value of future premiums and we estimate the liability using methods that include estimates of expected investment yields, mortality, morbidity and policy persistency. Of course, actual experience may vary from our estimates, due to emerging trends in morbidity, mortality, persistency and asset yields and some of these trends can fluctuate significantly over time. As we realize the actual experience, we take into account the financial impacts of these changes to our original assumptions. When current estimates of the present value of future benefits exceed the present value of future premiums for a product line, we recognize all excess amounts as a loss. There are no current estimates of the overall net gain resulting from improvements from original assumptions. We account for long duration contracts meeting the definition of Statement No. 97, such as universal life type products, consistent with the way we account for interest bearing or other financial instruments. We do not report payments received on those contracts as revenue and, correspondingly, we do not establish a policy benefit reserve. The liability for policy benefits is equal to: the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders at the date of the financial statements, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods, and amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable when the contract terminates. Claim Liabilities Reserves for claim liabilities were $428 million, $422 million and $447 million as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A 1% increase in the assumed medical cost trends would reduce pretax income by approximately $3 million. Future Policy Benefits Reserves for future policy benefits were $1,671 million, $1,542 million and $1,396 million as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. If a 1% unfavorable change were to occur in the mortality and morbidity assumptions for both the accident & health and life books of business, pretax income would be decreased by approximately $7 million. Warranty Compared to traditional underwriting businesses, our warranty business is unique, in that we typically (1) receive a multi year single premium and (2) claims have low severity and relatively high frequency. Individual program reserves are reviewed quarterly to verify an appropriate amount is held for past and future warranty claims. Our coverage on new products has a long waiting period and does not begin until after the underlying manufacturers warranty expires. Despite an average 31/2 year duration overall, terms may extend as far as seven years with a few warranties lasting up to ten years. 36 Used product warranties are also sold but without underlying manufacturer warranty and so revenue recognition begins immediately. In addition to the term of the warranty, we take other characteristics into account when we estimate reserves. We review considerations such as the manufacturer or classes of products and embed them in our calculation methodology. Similar to other underwriting activities, we use historic loss development factors to project the ultimate loss. For recent periods, we use the Bornhuetter Ferguson method, commonly used in underwriting businesses. Bornhuetter Ferguson: combines loss development methods with an expected loss ratio technique. computes the expected loss ratio using either judgment, recent experience, or other commonly used statistical methods, such as the Cape Cod method. These methods result in a point estimate of our liability, which was $759 million as of December 31, 2005. We believe that the ultimate development of the recorded liability could be as much as 10% more or 5% less. Sources of uncertainty include technological innovations such as plasma TVs and liquid crystal displays. In addition, some of our policies include profit sharing, where the client participates in underwriting profits, but we pay all underwriting losses. Property & Casualty We estimate loss reserves for all property and casualty lines of business by accident year, using a minimum of five standard actuarial techniques; these techniques include, but are not limited to, incurred and paid loss development factors based on both program history and industry development patterns for similar lines of business. We also use the Bornhuetter Ferguson Method, which incorporates historical loss ratio performance weighted with case emergence to date. When we have the data available, we use frequency and severity methods to evaluate any data on claim count emergence and severity trends. We base the selected ultimate loss estimates on the range of estimates discussed above. Typically, we select the average of the estimates, but that selection may be influenced by the consistency of the estimates, knowledge of emerging loss trends and rate or benefit changes. We evaluate selected ultimate losses for business on a direct, assumed, ceded and net basis. From the selected ultimate losses, we deduct paid losses to arrive at the total reserve. The total reserve includes case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves. At December 31, 2005, our recorded liability was $292 million. Given the current knowledge of the overall variability of property and casualty exposures, we expect loss reserves to fall within 10 loss ratio points (or approximately $22 million) of our selected estimate 95% of the time. Valuation of Investments We periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairment. We analyze various risk factors and determine if any specific asset impairment exists. If there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value. 37 Each quarter, we review invested assets with material unrealized losses. Those assets are separated into two categories: (1)Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events, which are segmented among four categories: fixed maturity investments; publicly traded preferred stocks; publicly traded common stocks; and private common and preferred stocks and other invested assets. (2)Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events. Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events Fixed maturity investments. At least quarterly, we: review the creditworthiness of corporate obligors for changes by nationally recognized credit rating agencies and changes in fundamental financial performance of the underlying entity monitor cash flow trends and underlying levels of collateral for asset backed securities evaluate all bonds and asset backed securities whose financial performance has declined for other than temporary impairment. Publicly traded preferred stocks. At least quarterly, we review issuer creditworthiness, including changes in ratings by nationally recognized credit agencies and changes in financial performance of the underlying issuer. We monitor all preferred stock investments with declining financial performance for other than temporary impairment. Publicly traded common stocks. Quarterly, we review each common stock investment to determine if its decline in value is deemed other than temporary. Our review includes analyzing issuer financial trends and market expectations based on third party forward looking analytical reports, when available. Private common and preferred stocks and other invested assets. Every quarter, we review private issue valuations, which include recent transaction valuations between the issuer and a third party; financial performance reviews; and financial trend comparisons with publicly traded companies in the same or similar industries. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss when appropriate for these investments with continuous material unrealized losses due to issuer specific events. We base our decision on the facts and circumstances for each investment. Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events Invested assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events include those impacted by increasing U.S. Treasury or local sovereign interest rates; corporate and asset backed credit spread widening; common stock price volatility due to conditions in the overall market or a particular industry; and illiquid market conditions. Sometimes, we assume that a decline in value below cost is temporary for fixed maturity investments with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events when the market is expected to recover and we can hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, which is a decisive factor when considering an impairment loss. If we decide that holding the investment is no longer appropriate, we will reevaluate that investment for other than temporary impairment. We evaluate other than temporary impairment for preferred and common stock and other investments with continuous material unrealized losses for two consecutive quarters due to market conditions or industry related events. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss based upon each investments facts and circumstances. We continue to monitor these securities quarterly to ensure that unrealized losses are not the result of issuer specific events. 38 Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements provides additional information regarding our investments, including unrealized losses segregated by type and period of continuous unrealized loss at December 31, 2005. Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of acquired businesses. We: classify our intangible assets as either goodwill, client lists, non compete agreements, future profits of purchased books of business of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, or other purchased intangibles. allocate intangible assets between goodwill and other intangible assets and determine estimated useful lives based on our internal valuations or valuations from qualified independent appraisers. We calculate these amounts based on estimates and assumptions using historical and pro forma data and recognized valuation methods. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. amortize intangible assets other than goodwill over their estimated useful lives, while goodwill is not subject to amortization. carry intangible assets at cost, less accumulated amortization in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position. Although goodwill is not amortized, we test it for impairment at least annually. We test more frequently if there are indicators of impairment or whenever business circumstances suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. We perform impairment reviews at the reporting unit level. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, we complete further analysis to determine whether there was an impairment loss. No further analysis was required in 2005 or 2004. We determine fair value based on estimates and assumptions related to the amount and timing of future cash flows and future interest rates. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General In our discussion of operating results, we sometimes refer to supplemental information derived from consolidated financial information, which U.S. GAAP does not require in the financial statements. We use supplemental information related to organic revenue growth to help us and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium. Supplemental organic revenue growth information should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our consolidated statements of income. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments. 39  Since we conduct business in more than 120 countries, foreign exchange rate fluctuations have a significant impact on our business. In comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign exchange rate movements may be significant and may distort true period to period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, we have: isolated the impact of the change in currencies between periods by providing percentage changes on a comparable currency basis for revenue and disclosed the effect on earnings per share. provided this form of reporting to give financial statement users more meaningful information about our operations. Some tables in the segment discussions reconcile organic revenue growth percentages to the reported revenue growth percentages for the segments and sub segments. We separately disclose the impact of foreign currency as well as the impact from acquisitions, divestitures and transfers of business units, which represent the most significant reconciling items. In an "all other" category, we total other reconciling items that are not generally significant individually or in the aggregate. If there is a significant individual reconciling item within the "all other" category, we provide additional disclosure in a note. Summary of Results for 2003 through 2005 The consolidated results of continuing operations follow: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 6,646 $ 6,822 $ 6,545 Premiums and other 2,848 2,788 2,609 Investment income 343 321 310 Total consolidated revenue 9,837 9,931 9,464 Expenses: General expenses 6,914 6,969 6,569 Benefits to policyholders 1,551 1,516 1,427 Depreciation and amortization 277 303 307 Interest expense 125 136 101 Provision for New York and other state settlements 5 180 Unusual credit World Trade Center (14 ) Total expenses 8,872 9,104 8,390 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax and minority interest $ 965 $ 827 $ 1,074 Pretax margin continuing operations 9.8% 8.3% 11.3% Consolidated Results for 2005 Compared to 2004 Revenue Brokerage commissions and fees decreased by $176 million or 3% from the prior year driven by $100 million in lower contingent commission revenue and net dispositions of $168 million, partially offset by strong renewals and new business. Premiums and other increased $60 million or 2% from the prior year, driven by growth in our core products and favorable exchange rates, partially offset by reductions in runoff programs and other items as discussed in the Review by Segment section. 40 In total, investment income was up $22 million or 7% from last year. Investment income includes related investment expense and income or loss on investment disposals and impairments. See our Review by Segment section for further detail. Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 % of Total 2004 % of Total 2003 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 4,859 50 % $ 5,020 51 % $ 4,956 52 % United Kingdom 1,567 16 1,732 17 1,756 19 Continent of Europe 1,802 18 1,719 17 1,469 15 Rest of World 1,609 16 1,460 15 1,283 14 Total revenue $ 9,837 100 % $ 9,931 100 % $ 9,464 100 % U.S. revenue, which represents 50% of total revenue, decreased $161 million or 3% in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease primarily reflects the 2004 sale of Cambridge. U.K. revenue decreased $165 million or 10%. Excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange, revenue decreased $158 million. This reflects a soft U.K. market and changes in the model for compensation from underwriters in U.K. Specialty, partially offset by a change in the way we estimate installment revenue in the U.K., which added $23 million to revenue in 2005. Continent of Europe revenue increased $83 million or 5% and Rest of World revenue increased $149 million or 10%, principally reflecting a weaker U.S. dollar. Expenses Total expenses decreased $232 million or 3% from 2004. Driving factors of this decrease are: the 2004 expense from the NYAG and other regulatory authorities as well as the Daniel class action settlements, which accounted for $220 million of expenses in 2004. Cambridge expenses, which were $223 million last year. This unit was sold in the fourth quarter of 2004. continued focus on reducing expenses. These favorable impacts were partially offset by $158 million in restructuring related expenses. For further detail on expenses refer to the Review by Segment section. Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Income Tax and Minority Interest Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax and minority interest increased $138 million to $965 million. A number of significant items account for the fluctuation, as previously discussed. Approximately 68% of Aons 2005 consolidated income from continuing operations before the provision for income tax and minority interest was from international operations. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 33.5% in 2005 and 34.1% in 2004. Differences between the overall effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate are typically due to U.S. state income taxes and differentials between U.S. and international tax rates. Changes in the mix between our U.S. and international pretax income directly affect our effective tax rates. In 2005 and 2004, our effective tax rate reflects the favorable resolution of tax examination issues, partially offset by the impact of deferred tax adjustments. In 2004, a one time tax benefit resulting from the 41 difference between our tax and book basis in Cambridge reduced our effective tax rate. For a summary of these effects, please see the rate reconciliation provided in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased to $642 million ($1.89 per diluted share) from $545 million ($1.63 per diluted share) in 2004. Basic income per share from continuing operations was $1.99 and $1.70 for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Hedging and currency translation gains added $0.08 and $0.05 per share, respectively, to income from continuing operations in 2005. To compute income per share, we have deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Investments on Diluted Earnings per Share, diluted shares outstanding were increased by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. When calculating the diluted income per share, we added after tax interest expense on these debt securities to income from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations After tax income from discontinued operations in 2005 was $95 million ($0.29 and $0.28 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively). In comparison, after tax income in 2004 from discontinued operations was $1 million (with no impact on basic and diluted income per share). The increase was primarily attributable to the sale of Swett & Crawford, partially offset by losses from certain insurance underwriting subsidiaries acquired with Alexander and Alexander Services, Inc. (A&A). Consolidated Results for 2004 Compared to 2003 Revenue In 2004, revenue increased $467 million or 5% over 2003 to $9.9 billion. This increase was mostly from the movement in foreign exchange rates, as revenue increased $67 million excluding foreign exchange effects. Brokerage commissions and fees increased by $277 million or 4% from the prior year, driven almost entirely by favorable foreign exchange rates. There was no organic revenue growth in the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment in large part due to the termination of contingent commission arrangements, as well as a softer insurance market. Consulting organic revenue grew 1%. Premiums and other increased $179 million or 7% from the prior year due to increased retentions, a change in an insurance program for a specialty accident and health line and favorable foreign exchange rates. Growth in specialty property and casualty and core accident, health and life business was offset by a planned decrease in the runoff businesses. Investment income increased by $11 million or 4% over 2003. The net increase reflects improved results at the operating segments driven primarily by an increase in short term rates that was partially offset by a decline at Corporate. U.S. revenue, which represents 51% of total consolidated revenue, increased $64 million or 1% in 2004 compared to 2003. The low revenue growth reflected the softer U.S. retail market that began late in 2003 after a two year rapid increase in premiums following the September 11 tragedy and lower contingent commission revenue. Additionally, the November 2004 sale of Cambridge resulted in a $19 million loss of revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003. U.K. revenue decreased $24 million or 1%. Excluding the positive effects of foreign currency exchange, revenue decreased $198 million or 10%. The decrease in revenue is attributable to the soft 42 market, which resulted in lower premiums and commissions. Additionally, the sale of our U.K. claims services business resulted in an $82 million loss of revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003. Continent of Europe revenue increased $250 million or 17% and Rest of World revenue increased $177 million or 14%, principally reflecting a weakening of the U.S. dollar. Expenses Total expenses increased $714 million or 9% over 2003. General expenses increased $400 million or 6% over 2003, reflecting the impact of: foreign exchange rates increase in net periodic pension expenses of $47 million for our major plans over 2003 a $40 million provision for costs to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. Net gains on currency derivative transactions reduced expenses by $45 million in 2004. The 6% increase in benefits to policyholders was driven by the combination of growth in underwriting revenue, the change in an insurance program for a specialty accident and health line and foreign exchange rates. In 2003, expenses increased due to higher claims for National Program Services, Inc. (NPS) of $79 million. NPS was hired to handle quoting, binding, premium collection, claims adjusting and other servicing related to general liability insurance policies issued by one of Aons subsidiaries. In 2002, we stopped NPS from initiating any new business on our behalf. In 2003, actuaries examined the business that NPS had written and reviewed assumptions, such as historical loss development patterns and expected ultimate loss ratio. As a result of this review, we strengthened our reserves, mainly for accident years 2001 and 2002. Interest expense increased $35 million or 35% primarily due to the adoption of FIN 46 on December 31, 2003, which required the deconsolidation of our trust preferred capital securities and which was offset by an increase in notes payable. Interest expense on the notes payable was $58 million for 2004. Without this item, interest expense declined $23 million due principally to lower debt levels during most of the year (see Notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information). Our results include a $180 million provision for settlements resulting from investigations by the NYAG and other regulatory authorities and $40 million for the Daniel class action lawsuit. In 2003, total expenses included a $14 million credit related to the World Trade Center property insurance settlement. The 2003 credit represents a $60 million final settlement of our World Trade Center property insurance claim, net of $46 million paid to a third party relating to temporary office space in Manhattan after the World Trade Center was destroyed. Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Income Tax and Minority Interest Because the increase in expenses exceeded the increase in revenues (for the reasons described above), income from continuing operations before income tax and minority interest decreased $247 million or 23% in 2004 to $827 million. Approximately 92% of Aons 2004 consolidated income from continuing operations before provision for income tax was from international operations. The $220 million provisions for settlements resulting from investigations by the NYAG and other regulatory authorities and for costs to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit were considered domestic expenses. 43 Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.1% in 2004 and 36.9% in 2003. Typically, differences between the overall effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate are due to U.S. state income taxes and differentials between U.S. and international tax rates. Changes in the mix between our U.S. and international pretax income directly impact our effective tax rates. In 2004, a one time tax benefit resulting from the difference between our tax and book basis in Cambridge reduced our effective tax rate. For a summary of these effects, see the rate reconciliation provided in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased to $545 million ($1.63 per diluted income per share) from $642 million ($1.94 per diluted income per share) in 2003. Basic income per share from continuing operations was $1.70 and $2.01 for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Hedging and currency translation gains added $0.11 and $0.07 per share, respectively, to 2004 income from continuing operations. To compute income per share, we have deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. In accordance with EITF No. 04 8, we increased diluted shares outstanding by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. When calculating the diluted income per share, we added the after tax interest expense on these debt securities to income from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations After tax income from discontinued operations in 2004 was $1 million (no impact on basic and diluted income per share). In comparison, after tax losses in 2003 from discontinued operations were $14 million (a loss of $0.04 per both basic and diluted income per share). Consolidated Results for Fourth Quarter 2005 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2004 The consolidated results of continuing operations follow: (millions) Three months ended December 31, 2005 2004 Revenue: Brokerage commissions and fees $ 1,725 $ 1,791 Premiums and other 700 687 Investment income 105 122 Total consolidated revenue 2,530 2,600 Expenses: General expenses 1,849 1,855 Benefits to policyholders 375 362 Depreciation and amortization 68 75 Interest expense 31 35 Provision for New York and other state settlements 1 180 Total expenses 2,324 2,507 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax $ 206 $ 93 Pretax margin continuing operations 8.1 % 3.6 % 44 Revenue Brokerage commission and fees decreased by $66 million or 4% from 2004, driven primarily by $37 million in lower revenue from the disposition of Cambridge in 2004 and $9 million less in contingent commission revenue. This decline was partially offset by the impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar of $36 million. Premiums and other increased $13 million or 2% from the prior year, primarily driven by strong growth in a supplemental health product and other warranty programs, which more than offset a decline in our European credit business. In total, investment income is down $17 million or 14% from fourth quarter 2004. The Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment is up $16 million primarily due to an increase in short term interest rates. Insurance Underwriting is up $7 million, driven by the movement to longer term, higher yield investments and improved cash flow. The Corporate segment is down $40 million, driven by the $37 million gain on the sale of virtually all of our Endurance common stock in 2004. Expenses Total expenses decreased $183 million from 2004. The significant drivers of the change include: $180 million recorded in 2004 for the settlement with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities compared to $1 million associated with these settlements in 2005. $40 million of expense in 2004 relating to the Daniel class action settlement. $46 million of Cambridge related expenses in 2004 with no corresponding expenses recorded in 2005 as we sold the business in fourth quarter 2004. $40 million favorable impact of foreign currency rates. These favorable impacts were partially offset by $123 million in restructuring related expenses. Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Income Tax Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax increased from $93 million in 2004 to $206 million in 2005. This increase is due primarily to the impact of the $220 million charge relating to the NYAG and other regulatory authorities and Daniel class action settlements in 2004, which was partially offset by $123 million in restructuring related expenses in 2005. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 30.1% in 2005 and 21.5% in 2004. The tax rate for the quarter was positively impacted by favorable resolution of tax issues and lower effective state tax rates, partially offset by the impact of restructuring charges. In 2004, a one time benefit resulting from the difference between the tax and book basis in Cambridge reduced our effective tax rate. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased to $144 million ($0.42 per diluted income per share) from $73 million ($0.22 per diluted income per share) in 2004. Basic income per share from continuing operations was $0.44 and $0.23 for 2005 and 2004, respectively. To compute income per share, we have deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. In September 2005, we redeemed all of the preferred stock from the holders and cancelled the shares (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). In accordance with EITF No. 04 8, we increased diluted shares outstanding by 14 million to reflect the 45 possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. We have added after tax interest expense on these debt securities back to income from continuing operations when calculating the diluted income per share. Discontinued Operations After tax income from our discontinued businesses in 2005 was $80 million ($0.25 and $0.23 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively), reflecting primarily the sale of Swett & Crawford. In comparison, income in 2004 from these discontinued operations was $8 million ($0.02 per basic and diluted income per share). REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services, Consulting and Insurance Underwriting (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). Aons operating segments are identified as those that: report separate financial information are evaluated regularly when we are deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. We attribute revenues to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. Segment revenue includes investment income generated by invested assets of that segment, as well as the impact of related derivatives. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective segments: Our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting businesses invest funds held on behalf of clients and operating funds in short term obligations. In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. Investments underlying interest sensitive capital accumulation insurance liabilities are fixed or floating rate fixed maturity obligations. For this business segment, operating invested assets are approximately equal to average net policy liabilities. Our insurance subsidiaries have invested assets that exceed net policy liabilities, which allow us to maintain solid claims paying ratings. Income from these investments is reflected in Corporate and Other segment revenues. 46 The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Operating segment revenue: (1) Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 5,400 $ 5,497 $ 5,339 Consulting 1,255 1,247 1,185 Insurance Underwriting 3,188 3,150 2,883 Income before income tax: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 719 $ 576 $ 791 Consulting 110 105 110 Insurance Underwriting 314 254 196 Pretax margins: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services 13.3 % 10.5 % 14.8% Consulting 8.8 % 8.4 % 9.3% Insurance Underwriting 9.8 % 8.1 % 6.8% (1)Intersegment revenues of $62 million, $72 million and $68 million were included in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Aon is a leader in many sectors of the insurance industry: globally, it is the second largest insurance broker, the largest reinsurance broker and the leading manager of captive insurance companies worldwide. Until the fourth quarter of 2005, we were the largest wholesale broker; however, we sold our U.S. wholesale brokerage business (Swett & Crawford) in the fourth quarter. These rankings are based on the most recent surveys compiled and reports printed by Business Insurance. Changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry, as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds. More specifically, lower premium rates, or a "soft market," generally result in decreased commission revenues. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services generated approximately 55% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2005. Revenues are generated primarily through: commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies fees paid by clients interest income on funds held on behalf of clients. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of: the timing of our clients policy renewals the net effect of new and lost business the timing of services provided to our clients the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short term interest rates. 47  Our risk brokerage companies operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with many retail insurance brokerage and agency firms, as well as with individual brokers and agents and direct writers of insurance coverage. Specifically, this segment: addresses the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of commercial enterprises, professional groups, insurance companies, governments, healthcare providers and non profit groups, among others provides affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations and businesses provides reinsurance services to insurance and reinsurance companies and other risk assumption entities by acting as brokers or intermediaries on all classes of reinsurance provides wholesale brokerage, managing underwriting and premium finance services to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients. In 2005, we sold our U.S. wholesale brokerage business, Swett & Crawford, and therefore will no longer provide wholesale brokerage services in the U.S. provides actuarial, loss prevention and administrative services to businesses and consumers provides management of captive insurance companies offers claims management and loss cost management services to insurance companies and firms with self insurance programs. During 2004, we exited most of these activities by completing the sale of our U.K. claims operations in second quarter 2004 and our U.S. third party claims administration business in fourth quarter 2004. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage Americas (Brokerage Americas) encompasses our retail brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement and captive management services and premium finance services in North and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage International (Brokerage International)offers similar products and services to the parts of the world not included in Brokerage Americas. Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services (Reinsurance) offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that: enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios improve capital utilization evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide. Claims Services (Claims) offered claims administration and loss cost management services. We exited most of these activities in 2004 by selling our U.S. and U.K. claims administration businesses. 48 Revenue This table details Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Brokerage Americas $ 2,172 $ 2,067 $ 2,040 Brokerage International 2,383 2,357 2,074 Reinsurance 845 861 873 Claims 212 352 Total revenue $ 5,400 $ 5,497 $ 5,339 The insurance market remained soft in 2005. Total 2005 Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue was $5.4 billion, a decline of 2% from last year reflecting the impact of $85 million of lost contingent commissions and $212 million due to the sale of our claims services businesses, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange and strong growth in our U.S. retail business. This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2005 versus 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Brokerage Americas 5 % 1 % % 2 % 2 % Brokerage International 1 1 2 (2 ) Reinsurance (2 ) 1 2 (5 ) Claims (100 ) (100 ) Total revenue (2 )% 1 % (3 )% 1 % (1 )% In total, excluding the impact of contingent commissions, organic revenue growth would have been 1%. The 5% reported growth in Brokerage Americas is driven by strong renewals, new business and the positive foreign currency impact of $26 million, partially offset by eliminating $58 million in contingent commissions. International Brokerage revenue results include a positive impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and the impact of refining our techniques for estimating revenue on installment policies in the U.K., resulting in a $23 million increase to revenue. The organic revenue growth of (2)% is driven largely by pricing, less new business and changes in the model for compensation from underwriters in U.K. Specialty. Reinsurance is down 2%, despite a favorable foreign exchange impact of $7 million. Organic revenue growth of (5)% is driven primarily by weaker pricing, lower renewal rates, loss of certain accounts in 2004 and higher risk retention by clients. Claims Services revenue included results from Cambridge, which was sold in fourth quarter 2004. 49 This table shows Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by geographic area and total pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,007 37 % $ 2,151 39 % $ 2,224 42 % United Kingdom 1,014 19 1,056 19 1,093 20 Continent of Europe 1,279 24 1,265 23 1,112 21 Rest of World 1,100 20 1,025 19 910 17 Total revenue $ 5,400 100 % $ 5,497 100 % $ 5,339 100 % Income before income tax $ 719 $ 576 $ 791 U.S. revenue decreased 7% over 2004 due to the sale of our claims services business and lower contingent commissions, which more than offset growth in our U.S. retail business. U.K. revenue declined $42 million or 4%. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, revenue would have declined $37 million. Both the retail and reinsurance sectors declined, primarily as a result of increased pricing pressures, higher retention of risk by clients and less new business. Continent of Europe revenue increased 1%; however, absent the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates, revenue was flat. The $75 million or 7% growth in the Rest of World is driven primarily by a favorable foreign currency impact and acquisitions. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income increased $143 million or 25% from 2004 to $719 million. In 2005, pretax margins in this segment were 13.3%, up from 10.5% in 2004. The primary drivers of the improvement in our results were: $153 million provision allocation in 2004 for regulatory settlements, which resulted from the investigation by the NYAG and other regulatory authorities increase in investment income of $49 million $34 million provision allocation in 2004 for costs to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit improved margins in U.S. retail positive impact on pretax income and margins resulting from the elimination of Cambridges operating results in 2005. Negative impacts to this years income and margins included: $143 million in restructuring costs in 2005 with no corresponding costs in 2004 $85 million reduction in contingent commission revenue in 2005 compared to 2004 caused by the discontinuance of such arrangements fourth quarter 2004 gain on the sale of Cambridge. 50 Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. Our consulting segment: provides a full range of human capital management services from employee benefits to compensation consulting generated 13% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2005. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Consulting Services, which provides human capital consulting services in five practice areas: 1.Employee Benefits advises clients about the structure, funding and administration of employee benefit programs that attract, retain and motivate employees. Benefits consulting includes health and welfare, retirement, executive benefits, absence management, compliance, employer commitment, investment advisory and elective benefit services. 2.Compensation focuses on designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option and other pay structures, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries. 3.Management Consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development and change management. 4.Communications advises clients on how to communicate initiatives that support their corporate vision. 5.Strategic Human Resource Consulting advises complex global organizations on talent, change and organization effectiveness issues, including assessment, selection performance management, succession planning, organization design and related people management programs. Outsourcing, which offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration and other employment related services. Revenue In 2005, revenues of $1,255 million were 1% over 2004. Revenue on an organic basis was down 2% from last year. Contingent commissions decreased $15 million from 2004 in connection with terminating our contingent fee arrangements. This table details Consulting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Consulting services $ 981 $ 949 $ 898 Outsourcing 274 298 287 Total revenue $ 1,255 $ 1,247 $ 1,185 51 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2005 versus 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Consulting services 3 % 1 % 2 % % % Outsourcing (8 ) (2 ) 1 (7 ) Total revenue 1 % % 1 % 2 % (2 )% Overall Consulting revenue was up $8 million from 2004, as growth from small acquisitions more than offset $15 million of lost contingent commissions. On a subsegment basis, Consulting services was up $32 million or 3% due to growth in core services partially offset by the loss of contingent commission revenue. Outsourcing revenue was down 8% due to loss of certain clients and lower employment levels at certain clients. This table shows Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 730 58 % $ 754 61 % $ 762 64 % United Kingdom 206 16 213 17 182 15 Continent of Europe 186 15 162 13 139 12 Rest of World 133 11 118 9 102 9 Total revenue $ 1,255 100 % $ 1,247 100 % $ 1,185 100 % Income before income tax $ 110 $ 105 $ 110 U.S. revenue decreased in 2005, primarily reflecting lower results in the employee benefits and outsourcing practices, along with lower contingent commissions Continent of Europe and Rest of World revenues rose on favorable currency exchange impacts, organic revenue growth and the impact of small acquisitions. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income was $110 million, up $5 million or 5% from 2004. 2005 pretax margins in this segment were 8.8%, up from 8.4% in 2004. The following items affected the year to year comparisons: $27 million provision allocation in 2004 for regulatory settlements, which resulted from the investigation by the NYAG and other regulatory authorities $6 million provision allocation in 2004 for costs to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit $15 million reduction of contingent commission revenue, as we terminated these arrangements $8 million of 2005 restructuring charges with no corresponding expense in 2004. Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment: provides supplemental accident, health and life insurance coverage mostly through direct distribution networks, primarily through more than 6,900 career insurance agents working for 52 our subsidiaries. Our revenues are affected by our success in attracting and retaining these career agents; offers extended warranty and credit insurance products that are sold through retailers, automotive dealers, insurance agents and brokers and real estate brokers. Our revenues are affected by new and continuing relationships with these retailers, dealers, agents and brokers; offers select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis through managing general underwriters, primarily Aon owned companies; administers certain extended warranty services on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and appliances; has operations in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia/Pacific and South America; generated approximately 32% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2005. We have: expanded product distribution to include affinity groups and worksite marketing, which has created access to new markets and potential new policyholders decided to run off certain non core special risk accident and health business in the U.S. and the U.K., as well as our accident and health insurance underwriting operations in Latin America. Revenue Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth in this segment; however, reported revenues reflect earned premiums and fees. We review our revenue results using the following sub segments: Accident & Health and Life, through which we provide an array of accident, sickness, short term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations and are not subject to escalating medical cost inflation. Warranty and Credit, through which we provide warranties on automobiles and a variety of consumer goods, including electronics and appliances. In addition, we provide non structural home warranties and other warranty products, such as credit card enhancements and affinity warranty programs; and Property & Casualty, through which we provide select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis. 53 The table below reflects written and earned premiums and associated reserves: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Written premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,476 $ 1,461 $ 1,460 Warranty and Credit 1,049 1,081 986 Property & Casualty 239 264 221 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,288 1,345 1,207 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,764 $ 2,806 $ 2,667 Earned premiums: Accident & Health and Life $ 1,696 $ 1,620 $ 1,502 Warranty and Credit 918 920 830 Property & Casualty 234 248 217 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,152 1,168 1,047 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 2,848 $ 2,788 $ 2,549 Policy and Contract Claim Liabilities: Accident & Health and Life $ 428 $ 422 $ 447 Warranty and Credit 177 211 207 Property & Casualty 1,222 1,221 955 Total Warranty, Credit, Property & Casualty 1,399 1,432 1,162 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 1,827 $ 1,854 $ 1,609 In 2005, revenues of $3.2 billion increased 1% over 2004. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, revenues were flat to last year. This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by sub segment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Accident & health and life $ 1,805 $ 1,721 $ 1,594 Warranty, credit and property & casualty 1,383 1,429 1,289 Total revenue $ 3,188 $ 3,150 $ 2,883 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2005 versus 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: All Other(1) Organic Revenue Growth Accident & health and life 5 % 1 % (1 )% 5 % Warranty, credit and property & casualty (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) Total revenue 1 % 1 % (2 )% 2 % (1)The difference between written and earned premiums and fees, as a percentage change, was (1)% for accident & health, 1% for warranty and 0% for total revenue. In accident & health and life, revenue increased $84 million, reflecting a 5% increase. The primary drivers of this increase were strong growth in a supplemental health product, improved international revenue and a $16 million favorable impact from foreign exchange rates. 54 The favorable impacts were partially offset by planned reductions in certain programs and our runoff businesses. Warranty, credit and property & casualty revenue decreased $46 million, primarily due to planned run off of programs and declines in our European credit business, partially offset by increased investment income, positive foreign exchange and growth in our core business. During the fourth quarter, we determined certain transactions between our warranty businesses were not being properly eliminated. This matter resulted in an $11 million reduction to pretax income. This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,175 68 % $ 2,108 67 % $ 1,953 68 % United Kingdom 340 11 456 14 460 16 Continent of Europe 330 10 284 9 211 7 Rest of World 343 11 302 10 259 9 Total revenue $ 3,188 100 % $ 3,150 100 % $ 2,883 100 % Income before income taxes $ 314 $ 254 $ 196 In 2005, U.S. revenue increased as a result of growth in a supplemental health product and other accident, health & life core products, along with growth in certain warranty programs, which more than offset a change in our role in certain programs from an insurer to an administrator, as well as planned reductions in certain programs and runoff businesses. U.K. revenue was $116 million or 25% lower than last year as a result of lower revenue from a book of U.K. specialty accident and health business that had been placed in runoff, as well as a property & casualty discontinued line of business. Continent of Europe and Rest of World posted significant revenue improvement primarily as a result of favorable exchange rates and improvements in our European auto and warranty programs. Rest of Worlds revenue was impacted negatively by the return of warranty premiums and fees related to a mutual agreement with a Japanese company to retroactively terminate a warranty agreement. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income of $314 million increased 24% from 2004. Pretax margins rose from 8.1% in 2004 to 9.8% in 2005. The increase in pretax income and margin results from revenue growth in the accident & health and life products along with a $25 million increase in investment income. These gains were partially offset by $11 million of adjustments for the warranty, credit and property & casualty area as discussed above. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other segment revenue consists primarily of investment income (including income or loss on investment disposals and other than temporary impairment losses), which is not otherwise reflected in the operating segments. This segment includes: invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting businesses 55 the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries and related income. Corporate and Other segment revenue included income from Endurance common stock, which was accounted for under the equity method before the sale of virtually all of our holdings in December 2004 and changes in the valuation of Endurance warrants. We carry our investment in Endurance warrants at fair value and record changes in the fair value through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Private equities are principally carried at cost; however, where we have significant influence, they are carried under the equity method. These investments usually do not pay dividends. Limited partnerships (LP) are accounted for under the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying LP investments flow through Corporate and Other segment revenue. Although our portfolios are highly diversified, they still remain exposed to market, equity and credit risk. We: periodically review securities with material unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairments analyze various risk factors and identify any specific asset impairments. If we determine there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value review invested assets with material unrealized losses each quarter. This table shows the components of Corporate and Other revenue and expenses: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenue: Income from marketable equity securities and other investments: Income from change in fair value of Endurance warrants $ 10 $ $ 80 Equity earnings Endurance 38 46 Other 34 11 11 44 49 137 Limited partnership investments 1 6 1 Net gain (loss) on disposals and related expenses: Gain on sale of Endurance stock 1 48 Impairment write downs (11 ) (3 ) (36 ) Other 21 9 23 11 54 (13 ) Total revenue 56 109 125 Expenses: General expenses 109 81 61 Interest expense 125 136 101 Unusual credit World Trade Center (14 ) Total expenses 234 217 148 Loss before income tax $ (178 ) $ (108 ) $ (23 ) 56 Revenue Corporate and Other revenue decreased $53 million to $56 million in 2005, due primarily to: the sale of the remainder of our common stock investment in Endurance, resulting in a $1 million gain in 2005 versus a $48 million gain in 2004, when we sold virtually all of our holdings a decline of $38 million in our equity earnings from Endurance, due to the sale of virtually all of our stock in 2004. These declines were offset in part by: a $10 million non cash increase in the valuation of our Endurance stock warrants increased investment income. Loss Before Income Tax Corporate and Other total expenses were $17 million or 8% higher than in 2004 as a result of increased consulting, recruiting and other employee benefit costs, certain transferred costs from the segments to Corporate, as well as $4 million of restructuring and related expenses. Interest expense declined $11 million, primarily due to the repayment of our $250 million 6.9% notes that matured in July 2004. These revenue and expense comparisons contributed to the overall Corporate and Other pretax loss of $178 million in 2005 versus a pretax loss of $108 million in 2004. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Our routine liquidity needs are for servicing debt and paying dividends on outstanding stock. Our primary source for meeting these requirements is from dividends and internal financing from our operating subsidiaries. After meeting our routine dividend and debt servicing requirements, we used a portion of the remaining funding we received throughout the year for capital expenditures and to repurchase 675,000 shares of common stock. Our major U.S. insurance subsidiaries statutory capital and surplus at year end 2005 significantly exceeded the risk based capital target set by the NAIC. Our operating subsidiaries anticipate there will be adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. We have used cash flow primarily for dividend payments, business reinvestment, debt reduction, acquisition financing and treasury stock purchases. Cash in our consolidated statements of financial position includes funds available for general corporate purposes. We segregate funds we are holding on behalf of clients and to satisfy policyholder liabilities. 57 During 2005, we paid the first $76 million installment of the $190 million required under the settlement reached with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities. The remaining payments are scheduled to be paid over the next two years as follows: (millions) Cash to be paid 2006 $ 76 2007 38 Total cash payments $ 114 In addition to the NYAG and other regulatory authorities investigations, we have $40 million accrued for costs to settle the Daniel class action lawsuit. In 2005, total cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans were $463 million, an increase of $274 million from 2004. In 2004, we made an early contribution of $18 million to our Netherlands defined benefit pension plan. Under current rules and assumptions, we currently anticipate approximately $186 million in 2006 contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans. In connection with one of our U.K. pension plans, our principal U.K. subsidiary has agreed with the trustees of the plan to contribute &pound;20 million ($35 million) per year to the plan for six years with the amount payable increasing by 5.3% on each January 1, beginning in 2005. These contributions are in addition to the normal employer contributions to the plan. The trustees of the plan: have certain rights to request that our U.K. subsidiary advance an amount equal to an actuarially determined winding up deficit. As of December 31, 2004, the estimated winding up deficit was &pound;335 million ($580 million) have accepted in practice the agreed upon schedule of contributions and have not requested an advance. At the last valuation date, September 30, 2005, the estimated deficit between the value of the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation, calculated under U.S. GAAP, was $232 million, of which $199 million was recorded as a minimum pension liability. The U.K. pension plans have been closed to new employees since 1999. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations represent the net income we earned in the reported periods adjusted for non cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: (millions) As of December 31, 2005 2004 Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows $ 423 $ 541 All other operating cash flows 463 693 $ 886 $ 1,234 Change in funds held on behalf of brokerage and consulting clients (50 ) Cash provided by operating activities $ 886 $ 1,184 58  Cash flows from operations, excluding the change in funds held on behalf of brokerage and consulting clients declined $348 million compared with 2004. This decline is primarily attributed to an increase in U.S. defined benefit pension contributions to major plans of $274 million and a payment pursuant to the settlement agreement with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities of $76 million, somewhat offset by lower income tax payments of approximately $104 million. Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows Our insurance underwriting operations include accident & health and life and warranty, credit and property & casualty businesses. These insurance products have distinct differences in the timing of premiums earned and payment of future liabilities. The operating cash flow from our insurance subsidiaries, which also includes related corporate items, was $423 million for 2005, down $118 million compared to 2004, primarily due to the timing of tax payments and changes in operating assets. For 2005, operating cash flows, analyzed by major income statement component, indicated that premium and other fees collected, net of reinsurance, were $3,193 million compared to $3,167 million in 2004. Investment and other miscellaneous income received was $227 million and $159 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Investment income improved in 2005 due to favorable interest rates and an increase in invested assets. Additionally, we moved to longer term, higher yield investments. We used revenues generated from premiums, investments and other miscellaneous income to pay claims and other cash benefits, commissions and general expenses and taxes. Claims and other cash benefits paid were $1,393 million in 2005 versus $1,382 million in 2004. Commissions and general expenses paid were $1,446 million for 2005, compared to $1,325 million in 2004. Tax payments for 2005 were $158 million compared to $78 million last year. The increase reflects payments made on the gain on sale of virtually all our Endurance common stock investment. We will invest and use operating cash flows to satisfy future benefits to policyholders and when appropriate, make them available to pay dividends to the Aon parent company. During 2005, Combined Insurance Company of America, one of our major underwriting subsidiaries, declared and paid a cash dividend of $100 million to Aon. Generally, we invest in highly liquid and marketable investment grade securities to support policy liabilities. These invested assets are subject to insurance regulations set forth by the various governmental jurisdictions in which we operate, both domestically and internationally. The insurance regulations may restrict both the quantity and quality of various types of assets within the portfolios. Our insurance subsidiaries policy liabilities are segmented among multiple accident and health and property casualty portfolios. Those portfolios have widely varying estimated durations and interest rate characteristics. Generally, our policy liabilities are not subject to interest rate volatility risk. Therefore, in many of the portfolios, asset and policy liability duration are not closely matched. Interest rate sensitive policy liabilities are generally supported by floating rate assets. Funds held on behalf of clients In our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments, we typically hold funds on behalf of clients as a result of: premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers. These premiums held on behalf of, or due from, clients are reported as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurer. claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. Claims held by, or due to us and which are due to clients, are also shown as both assets and liabilities. 59 These funds held on behalf of clients can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect cash from our clients and when premiums are remitted to the insurance carriers. All other operating cash flows The operating cash flow from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments, as well as related corporate items, was $463 million in 2005 compared to $693 million in 2004. These amounts exclude the change in funds held on behalf of clients as described above. The operating cash flows depend on the timing of receipts and payments related to revenues, incentive compensation, other operating expenses and income taxes. Comparing 2005 to 2004, the net decrease in cash from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments and related corporate items of $230 million was primarily affected by an increase in defined benefit pension contributions, a payment pursuant to the settlement agreement with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities and the timing of income tax payments. Aon uses the excess cash generated by our brokerage and consulting businesses as well as dividends received from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet its liquidity needs, which consist of servicing its debt, paying dividends to its stockholders and repurchasing outstanding shares. Investing and Financing Activities We used the consolidated cash flow from operations (net of funds held on behalf of clients) of $886 million for: investing activities of $769 million. The cash flows used by investing activities included purchases of investments, net of sales, of $926 million and acquisitions, principally made by our international brokerage operations, of $81 million. Additionally, our investing activities included capital expenditures, net of disposals, of $126 million and proceeds from the sale of operations of $364 million, mainly reflecting the sale of Swett & Crawford. financing needs of $204 million. Financing uses primarily included cash dividends paid to shareholders of $193 million and long term debt repayments, net of issuances, of $17 million, which were partially offset by net issuance of short term borrowings of $5 million. In fourth quarter 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of Aons common stock. Any repurchased common stock will be available for use in connection with employee stock plans and for other corporate purposes. During 2005, we repurchased 675,000 shares at a cost of $25 million. Financial Condition Since year end 2004, total assets decreased $0.5 billion to $27.8 billion at December 31, 2005. In 2005, total investments increased $0.6 billion to $9.1 billion from December 31, 2004. Fixed maturities increased $736 million, primarily relating to an asset management program. Short term investments fell $157 million, primarily as a result of a decrease in funds held on behalf of clients. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting receivables decreased $163 million in 2005. Corresponding insurance premiums payable decreased $348 million over the same period. The decrease in receivables and payables reflects: the timing of receipts and payments the decrease in premium rates across most lines of business. Other assets decreased $527 million from December 31, 2004. Other assets are comprised principally of prepaid premiums related to reinsurance, prepaid pension assets and assets from 60 companies considered held for sale. The decrease from year end 2004 is due to the sale of Swett & Crawford in 2005. In 2004, the assets of Swett & Crawford, $511 million, were considered held for sale. Policy liabilities increased $115 million, but were partially offset by a corresponding increase in reinsurance receivables (reflected in other receivables). Investments We invest in broad asset categories related to our diversified operations. In managing our investments, our objective is to maximize earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks and regulatory requirements. The Corporate and Other segment contains invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, together with the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income. These insurance assets are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and LPs. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies: are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies are unavailable for other uses, such as debt reduction or share repurchases, without considering regulatory requirements (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). In 2001, we securitized $450 million of our LP investments and associated LP commitments, which represented most of our limited partnership investments, via a sale of PEPS I. The securitization gives our underwriting subsidiaries greater liquidity. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our investments. Borrowings Total debt at December 31, 2005 was $2.1 billion, down $5 million from December 31, 2004. Our notes payable decreased by $10 million compared to year end 2004. This decrease is due to retiring $250 million of outstanding domestic debt securities due in May 2005, mostly offset by an increase in our Euro credit facility of $247 million. We have disclosed future payments of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2002, we completed an offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% convertible senior debentures due 2012. The debentures are unsecured obligations and are convertible into our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $21.475 per common share under certain circumstances, including the following: If the closing price of our common stock during any fiscal quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price (i.e. $25.77) for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the previous fiscal quarter. Or Subject to certain exceptions, during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the debentures for each day of the ten trading day period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale price of our common stock and the number of shares issuable upon conversion of $1,000 principal amount of the debentures. Aon has reserved approximately 14 million shares for the potential conversion of these debentures. 61 At December 31, 2005, we had a $600 million unused U.S. committed bank credit facility, which expires in February 2010, to support commercial paper and other short term borrowings. This facility allows us to issue up to $150 million in letters of credit. We also have several foreign credit facilities available. At December 31, 2005, we had available to us: a five year &euro;650 million ($770 million) multi currency facility, of which $581 million was outstanding at December 31, 2005. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on both the U.S. and Euro facilities. a 364 day &pound;37.5 million ($65 million) facility and a 10 million Canadian dollar ($9 million) facility, both of which expire in September 2006. a &euro;20 million ($24 million) open ended facility. The major rating agencies ratings of our debt at February 28, 2006 appear in the table below. Senior long term debt Commercial paper Rating Outlook Rating Outlook Standard & Poors BBB+ Positive A 2 Positive Moodys Investor Services Baa2 Stable P 2 Stable Fitch, Inc. BBB+ Stable F 2 Stable During 2005: Fitch, Inc. lowered its ratings on our senior debt from "A " to "BBB+" and affirmed our commercial paper rating of "F2." They changed their outlook on us from negative to stable. S&P affirmed its ratings for Aon, removed us from credit watch and changed their outlook first to stable and then to positive. Moodys affirmed its ratings for Aon and changed its outlook from negative to stable. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper would: increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. Our 6.20% notes due 2007 ($250 million of which are outstanding with a current interest rate of 6.95%) expressly provide for interest rate increases in the case of certain ratings downgrades. increase our commercial paper interest rates or may restrict our access to the commercial paper market altogether. Although we have committed backup lines we cannot ensure that our financial position will not be hurt if we can no longer access the commercial paper market. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $200 million during 2005 to $5.3 billion, primarily reflecting: $737 million of net income a $152 million increase in paid in capital principally due to stock issued in connection with employee benefit plans. These equity increases were partially offset by dividends paid to stockholders of $194 million and an increase in our accumulated other comprehensive loss. 62 Accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $474 million since December 31, 2004. Compared to year end 2004: net foreign exchange worsened by $240 million because of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; net derivative losses increased $51 million; net unrealized investment losses rose $10 million; and our net additional minimum pension liability adjustment increased. In past years, some of our defined benefit pension plans, particularly in the U.K., incurred losses due to reduced actuarial return assumptions. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require a company to maintain, at a minimum, a liability on its balance sheet equal to the difference between the present value of benefits incurred to date for pension obligations and the fair value of the assets supporting these obligations. At year end 2005, the change in pension obligation caused a $173 million (after tax) decrease to stockholders equity. We maintain the related pension plan assets in separate trust accounts; they are not part of our consolidated financial statements. This non cash adjustment to other comprehensive income did not affect 2005 net income. For 2006, we project: $246 million in pension expense for our major defined benefit plans. This expense is significantly affected by a lower discount rate. $186 million in cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more cash or certain non cash assets to the plans. Our total debt as a percentage of total capital was 28.5% at December 31, 2005. This is compared to our total debt and preferred securities as a percentage of total capital of 29.8% at year end 2004. In September 2005, we redeemed all of the outstanding shares of our redeemable preferred stock for $50 million plus accrued but unpaid dividends. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We record various contractual obligations as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but we are required to disclose them. Aon and its subsidiaries have issued letters of credit to cover contingent payments of approximately $11 million for taxes and other business obligations to third parties. We accrue amounts in our consolidated financial statements for these letters of credit to the extent they are probable and estimable. Following the guidance of FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities and other relevant accounting guidance, we use special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities ("QSPEs"), also known as special purpose vehicles, in some of our operations. Premium Financing Some of our subsidiaries make short term loans (generally with terms of 12 months or less) to businesses to finance insurance premiums and then sell or "securitize," the finance receivables. Our subsidiaries make these sales through securitization transactions that meet the criteria for sale accounting following Statement No. 140. These premium financing securitizations use special purpose entities which are considered QSPEs, according to Statement No. 140 and FIN 46 and commercial 63 paper multi seller, non qualified bank conduit SPEs. Statement No. 140 provides that a QSPE should not be consolidated in the financial statements of a transferor or its affiliates (Aons subsidiaries). Premium financing securitizations performed by our U.S., U.K., Canadian and Australian subsidiaries use multi seller non qualified SPEs. By analyzing the qualitative and quantitative factors of the SPEs, we have determined that these subsidiaries are not the sponsors of the SPEs. Additionally, independent third parties: have made substantial equity investments in the SPEs have voting control of the SPEs generally have the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets of the SPEs. We have determined that non consolidation remains appropriate given that our subsidiaries do not have a significant variable interest in the SPEs. Through the premium financing agreements, we or one of our QSPEs sells undivided interests in specified premium finance receivables to the independent SPEs. Under the terms of these agreements, new receivables increase the amounts available to securitize as collections (administered by Aon) and reduce previously sold receivables. The amount advanced from third parties at any one time under the accounts receivable sales agreement is limited to a maximum of $1.9 billion. At both December 31, 2005 and 2004, $1.8 billion was advanced under these programs from the SPEs. We record at fair value the retained interest, which is included in insurance brokerage and consulting services receivables in the consolidated statements of financial position. We recorded gains associated with the sale of receivables. When we calculate the gain, we include all fees we incurred related to this facility. The gains, which are included in brokerage commissions and fees revenue in the consolidated statements of income, were $65 million, $81 million and $69 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We retain servicing rights for sold receivables and earn a servicing fee as income over the servicing period. The servicing fees are included in the gain/loss calculation. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of the servicing rights approximates the estimated costs to service the receivables and accordingly, we have not recorded any servicing assets or liabilities related to this servicing activity. We estimate fair value by discounting estimated future cash flows from the servicing rights and servicing costs using: discount rates that approximate current market rates expected future prepayment rates. The SPEs bear the credit risks on the receivables, subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves, which we formerly guaranteed. During 2005, we eliminated the percentage guarantee for all facilities, replacing it with other collateral enhancements. In January 2005, the Canadian facility was amended, reducing the ratings trigger and adding the financial covenants from the credit facility. In December 2005, this facility was extended to December 2008. In June 2005, the Australian facility was renewed for three years and the facility was increased by Australian dollar (AUD)$50 million. In July 2005, the U.S. facility was amended, extending the facility to July 2006 and reducing its size by $100 million. All but the Australian facility require Aon to maintain consolidated net worth, as defined, of at least $2.5 billion, and: consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to consolidated net interest of at least 4 to 1 64 consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA of no more than 3 to 1. We intend to renew these conduit facilities when they expire. If there were adverse bank, regulatory, tax or accounting rule changes, our access to the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be restricted. These special purpose vehicles are not included in our consolidated financial statements, following the appropriate accounting standards. PEPS I In 2001 we sold the vast majority of our LP portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which we do not control, established for victims of the September 11th attacks (51%). PEPS I: sold approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities to unaffiliated third parties. paid our insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and issued them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. Standard & Poors Ratings Services rated the fixed maturity securities our subsidiaries received from PEPS I as investment grade. As part of this transaction, the insurance companies had been required to purchase additional fixed maturity securities from PEPS I in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. Beginning in July 2004, Aon Parent assumed this responsibility and funded $12 million of commitments in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the unfunded commitments amounted to $48 million. These commitments have specific expiration dates and the general partners may decide not to draw on these commitments. Subsequent to closing the securitization, one of our insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. In second quarter 2004, CICA paid dividends to Aon Parent of $12 million in fixed maturities securities. We have not included the assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I in our consolidated financial statements. In previous years, Aon has recognized other than temporary impairment writedowns of $59 million, equal to the original cost of one tranche. The preferred stock interest represents a beneficial interest in securitized limited partnership investments. The fair value of the private preferred stock interests depends on the value of the limited partnership investments held by PEPS I. Management assesses other than temporary declines in the fair value below cost using a financial model that considers the: value of the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I nature and timing of the cash flows from the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I. Contractual Obligations The following table: summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2005 and the future periods during which we expect to settle these obligations in cash reflects the timing of principal payments on outstanding borrowings. 65 We have provided additional details about these obligations in our notes to the financial statements as noted below. Payments due by period (millions) Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years More than 5 years Total Notes payable and short term borrowings (Note 8) $ 593 $ 257 $ 2 $ 1,264 $ 2,116 Interest expense on notes payable 107 174 173 1,008 1,462 Operating leases (Note 8) 325 556 356 742 1,979 Purchase obligations (1) (2) 216 295 194 40 745 Insurance premiums payable 9,415 12 9,427 Future policy benefits 50 123 153 1,345 1,671 Policy and contract claims 833 351 107 536 1,827 NYAG and other regulatory authorities settlement (3) 76 38 114 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet under GAAP 2 3 2 4 11 Total $ 11,617 $ 1,809 $ 987 $ 4,939 $ 19,352 (1)Included in purchase obligations is a $380 million contract for information technology outsourcing with Computer Sciences Corporation. We are free to terminate this contract at any time for an amount calculated per the contract. However, given the nature of the contract, we have included it in our contractual obligations table. (2)Also included in purchase obligations is a $226 million contract for information technology services in the U.K. As of December 31, 2005, we can exit this obligation for approximately $35 million. However, given the nature of the contract, we have included it in our contractual obligations table. (3)The $109 million net present value of this liability has been reflected on the December 31, 2005 balance sheet in other liabilities. 66 We also have obligations with respect to our pension and other benefit plans (see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements and our discussion on liquidity above).  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. To manage the risk from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading purposes. The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. See Notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our primary exposures are to the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We use over the counter (OTC) options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the translation of our foreign operations financial statements. Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiary earns approximately 36% of its revenue in U.S. dollars, but most of its expenses are incurred in pounds sterling. Our policy is to convert into pounds sterling sufficient U.S. dollar revenue to fund the subsidiarys pound sterling expenses using OTC options and forward exchange contracts. At December 31, 2005, we have hedged 35% and 29% of our U.K. subsidiaries expected U.S. dollar transaction exposure for the years ending December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We do not generally hedge exposures beyond three years. The potential loss in future earnings from market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end exchange rates would not be material in 2005 and 2004. The nature of our businesses income is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical, instantaneous parallel decrease in the period end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $10 million to both 2005 and 2004 pretax income. The valuation of our fixed maturity investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% (100 basis point) increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2005 and 2004 by approximately $156 million and $119 million, respectively. We have notes payable outstanding with a fair value of $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. This fair value was greater than the carrying value by $337 million and $165 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 5% for both December 31, 2005 and 2004. The valuation of our marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $4 million at both December 31, 2005 and 2004. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. PEPS I In December 2001, we securitized $450 million of limited partnership investments, plus associated limited partnership commitments, via a sale to PEPS I. Aon received $171 million in cash plus $279 million of newly issued fixed maturity and preferred stock securities of PEPS I. We used the underlying equity in the limited partnerships to determine the fair value of the cash and securities 67 received in the securitization. At December 31, 2005, a 10% or 20% decrease in the underlying equity of the limited partnerships would have decreased the value of the preferred stock securities by $27 million and $54 million, respectively. We have selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity market prices to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. We believe these changes in rates and prices are reasonably possible within a one year period. 68   
 
