Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following information has been adjusted to reflect the restatement of our financial results, which is described in the "Explanatory Note" immediately preceding Part I, Item I and in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, "Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements". The net of tax impact of the adjustments, which amounted to $1 million in 2006, was recorded by the Company in its fourth quarter of 2006. The net of tax impact of the restatements on the Companys results of operations amounted to $2 million and $3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The impact of these adjustments was not significant to the Companys operating results, trends, or liquidity for the annual or quarterly periods in 2006, 2005, and 2004. This Managements Discussion and Analysis is organized as follows: I. OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Executive Summary of 2006 Financial Results II. KEY RECENT EVENTS Sale of Businesses and Disposal of Operations Third Quarter Underwriting Reserve Adjustments Restructuring and Other Business Reorganization Initiatives Stock Repurchase Program III. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Pensions Contingencies Policy Liabilities Valuation of Investments Intangible Assets Share based Payments Income Taxes IV. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General Summary Results for 2004 through 2006 Consolidated Results for 2006 Compared to 2005 Consolidated Results for 2005 Compared to 2004 V. REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Consulting Insurance Underwriting Unallocated Income and Expense VI. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Cash Flows Financial Condition Investments Borrowings Stockholders Equity Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 26  OVERVIEW Key Drivers of Financial Performance Segments The key drivers of financial performance vary among our operating segments. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services. Brokerage segment results are affected by several key drivers, including: conditions in insurance markets generally, particularly fluctuations in premiums charged by insurance companies success attracting and keeping clients fluctuations in foreign exchange rates interest income on our investments expense management employee retention. Consulting. Consulting segment results are principally affected by: our clients employment levels, which are driven mainly by economic conditions governmental regulations affecting the health care market, employee benefit programs and our clients respective industries our success attracting and keeping clients expense management employee retention. Insurance Underwriting. Underwriting segment results are affected by: consumer buying habits, which are influenced by economic conditions competition with other underwriters, including competition based upon claims paying ratings our success selling new policies, selling existing policyholders more services, and having customers renew their policies our investment results property and casualty reserve estimates and reinsurance collectability. Liquidity Liquidity is derived from cash flows from our businesses, excluding funds held on behalf of clients, and from financing. We use liquidity for capital expenditures, to repay debt, to fund acquisitions and pension obligations, to repurchase shares, and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because we are a holding company, our subsidiaries may not have available cash to pay us dividends; in the case of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, this ability is limited by regulatory and rating agency considerations. Our access to cash generated from operations outside the U.S. may be affected by tax considerations and by pension funding requirements in our international pension plans. 27 Executive Summary of 2006 Financial Results Below is a summary of our 2006 financial results. Refer to our detailed discussion below for further details. Our revenues from continuing operations increased $458 million or 5% overall (5% on an organic basis) driven by organic revenue growth in each of our segments. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue grew $261 million (2% on an organic basis). Our Insurance Underwriting revenue rose $171 million (13% on an organic basis). Consulting revenue increased $27 million or 4% on an organic basis. We use supplemental information related to organic revenue growth to help us and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses and unusual items. Organic revenue growth for the underwriting segment is based on premiums written. Expenses rose 5% in 2006, due to an increase in benefits to policyholders that was driven by a provision for underwriting reserves, higher compensation and benefit costs and unfavorable foreign exchange. Partially offsetting these increases were savings related to our restructuring program. We sold our Aon Warranty Group (AWG) and Construction Program Group (CPG) businesses; see Key Recent Events for further discussion. We continued our restructuring plan which began in late 2005. We expect an additional $40 million of costs to result from this plan in addition to the $325 million already expensed, of which $167 million was incurred in 2006. We expect these efforts to reduce our annual costs by approximately $280 million by 2008. Our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program in November 2006 to $2 billion. We repurchased 28.4 million shares for $1,048 million during 2006; further detail is discussed below in Key Recent Events. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $928 million remaining under the authorized share repurchase program. In managing our cash and investments during the year, we: repaid certain outstanding indebtedness under our &euro;650 million Euro credit facility by issuing CAD 375 million (U.S. $323 million at December 31, 2006) 5.05% senior unsecured debentures due in 2011 received approximately $800 million in gross cash proceeds relating to the sales of AWG and CPG spent $1,048 million to repurchase 28.4 million of our outstanding shares contributed $185 million in cash and $166 million in non cash financial instruments to our various pension plans. We also repaid $250 million of notes payable in January 2007. All of Aons financial information reflects the application of critical accounting policies, estimates, assumptions and judgments, as discussed below under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." These items are discussed further in the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 KEY RECENT EVENTS Sale of Businesses and Disposal of Operations We fundamentally changed the composition of our underwriting segment in 2006 by selling our AWG and CPG operations in two separate, but related, transactions. Virginia Surety Company, Inc. ("VSC"), our principal underwriter for both AWG and CPG, was sold to the buyer of AWG. We received approximately $800 million in gross cash proceeds and realized a pretax gain of $43 million on these sales. On an after tax basis, the transactions generated a gain of $9 million. The operating results of AWG and CPG and the impact of the sales transactions are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Over the last three years, we also sold the following businesses that are included in discontinued operations: our U.S. wholesale brokerage business, Swett & Crawford our U.K. claims services businesses a small non core consulting subsidiary our U.K. reinsurance brokerage runoff unit a small U.S. and Australian brokerage unit. Results of these businesses are as follows: (millions) Years ended December 31 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 1,357 $ 1,534 $ 1,598 Pretax income (loss): Operations $ 116 $ 148 $ 123 Sale 46 236 (23 ) Total $ 162 $ 384 $ 100 After tax income (loss): Operations $ 84 $ 66 $ 77 Sale 9 101 (18 ) Total $ 93 $ 167 $ 59 In November 2004, we sold our Cambridge claims administration business to Scandent Holdings Mauritius Limited ("SHM") for $90 million in cash plus convertible preferred stock in SHM, valued at $15 million. Because of our convertible preferred stock holding and other factors, we included Cambridges results before the sales effective date, as well as a pretax gain on the sale of $15 million, in income from continuing operations. In 2006, we contributed the preferred stock to one of our U.K. pension plans. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, "Disposal of Operations," for further information. Third Quarter Underwriting Reserve Adjustments We continually review the adequacy of our policy liabilities. During the third quarter 2006, in connection with the sales of AWG and CPG, we completed a detailed review of all our property and casualty reserves. Based on the results of this review, we increased our property and casualty reserves by approximately $102 million, reflecting adverse development, refined assumptions and additional claim information relating to programs to be disposed of through sale or runoff. We recorded 29 $81 million of this adjustment in continuing operations, of which the majority related to National Program Services, an independent managing general underwriter which wrote habitational risk on behalf of VSC. The remaining $21 million related to CPG and was recorded in discontinued operations. Restructuring and Other Business Reorganization Initiatives Plan Summary In 2005, we began executing a broad restructuring initiative to reduce our fixed cost base and increase efficiency. This three year plan has evolved as new opportunities have been identified and existing initiatives have been finalized. We expect the remaining portion to cost $40 million during 2007, which is in addition to the $325 million already expensed. Restructuring costs include workforce reductions, lease consolidation costs, asset impairments, and other expenses. In 2006, we estimate restructuring benefits were approximately $119 million. These initiatives are expected to lead to annualized cost savings of approximately $280 million by 2008. We estimate 3,600 positions will be eliminated as a result of this initiative. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 2,500 of these eliminations had already occurred. Further, office closures require that we recognize losses on subleases or lease buy outs, and may also trigger asset impairments. The following chart details the restructuring and related expenses we incurred through 2006 and our estimates for 2007 by geographic region: (millions) United States United Kingdom Continent of Europe Rest of World Total 2005 $ 28 $ 92 $ 30 $ 8 $ 158 2006 66 56 34 11 167 2007 estimated 25 10 5 40 Total incurred and Remaining estimated $ 119 $ 158 $ 69 $ 19 $ 365 The following chart summarizes the restructuring costs incurred through 2006 and our estimated expenses by type for 2007. Actual (millions) 2005 2006 Total Incurred Estimated 2007 (1) Total Workforce reduction $ 116 $ 116 $ 232 $ 13 $ 245 Lease consolidation 20 27 47 19 66 Asset impairments 17 12 29 5 34 Other related expenses 5 12 17 3 20 Total restructuring and related expenses $ 158 $ 167 $ 325 $ 40 $ 365 (1)Our estimated costs are forward looking and should be read in connection with our risk factors. Actual costs may vary due to changes in the assumptions built into this plan. Some of the assumptions that may change include changes in severance calculations, the assumptions underlying our sublease loss calculations due to changing market conditions, and our overall analysis that might cause us to add or cancel component initiatives. 30  Stock Repurchase Program In November 2005, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of Aons common stock, and in November 2006, the Board increased that amount to $2 billion. Any repurchased common stock will be available for employee stock plans and for other corporate purposes. From time to time, we may purchase shares through the open market or in privately negotiated transactions based on prevailing market conditions, which will be funded from available capital. During 2006, we repurchased 28.4 million shares for $1,048 million. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Aons consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect: what we report as our assets and liabilities what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. In accordance with our policies, we: regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those concerning pensions, contingencies, policy liabilities (including future policy benefit reserves, unearned premium reserves and policy and contract claim reserves), investments, intangible assets, share based payments and income taxes. base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used to prepare these consolidated financial statements. Pensions U.S. Plans Our U.S. pension plans are closed to new entrants, and effective January 1, 2007, we will determine future pension benefits using a "career average pay" formula rather than the prior "final average pay" formula. As of year end 2006: the market related value of assets does not yet reflect accumulated asset gains of $36 million. These gains will decrease pension expense as they are graded into the market related asset value and may be offset by future asset losses. We recognize twenty percent of the asset gain or loss in the current years market related value, with the remaining eighty percent spread over the next four years. we reported a fair value of pension assets of $1,457 million, while market related value of assets is $1,421 million. Gains and losses on pension obligations arise from such things as changes in the discount rate and demographic changes in employee data. Unrecognized gains and losses are deferred and amortized as a 31 component of pension expense over several years, based on the average expected future service of active employees in the plans, which is currently estimated to be eight years. As of December 31, 2006, the pension plans have a deferred loss of $485 million (comprised of unrecognized asset gains of $36 million and unrecognized actuarial losses of $521 million) that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the actuarial losses of $521 million outside of a corridor, over approximately eight years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of market related value of plan assets or PBO. For 2007, we estimate that this expense amortization will be approximately $43 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense similarly until fully amortized. To determine future pension expense, we currently assume a long term rate of return of approximately 8.6%. We base this expected long term return on capital market expectations for various asset classes (see following table). U.S. equities and fixed income expectations are estimated using a theoretical Capital Asset Pricing ("CAP") Model. The CAP Model for equities included three factors: Current dividend yield (1.8%) Corporate earnings nominal growth (7.1%) P/E ratio repricing (0.0%). The 5.8% fixed income expectation factor included the then current 10 year U.S. Treasury Note yields and simulations of future yields based on expected inflation and other factors. We based: other asset class expectations on risk premiums relative to U.S. equities and fixed income expected returns. estimates of volatilities and correlations among asset classes on historical data. We then weighted the expected returns for each asset class by the plans target allocation. This table shows the result of our calculation based on target asset allocation for year end 2006. The actual return for the 2006 calendar year (15.3%) was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Target Allocation Historical Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate Of Return Equities 80% Domestic Equities 45 8.9 % 4.0 % Alternatives 15 11.4 1.7 International Equities 15 9.0 1.3 Real Estate and REITs 5 7.2 0.4 Debt Securities 20 Fixed Maturities 20 5.8 1.2 Invested Cash No Target 5.0 Total 8.6 % Several assumptions affect the actuarial calculation of pension obligations, and in turn, net periodic pension expense. The most significant of these assumptions are: expected return on plan assets discount rate on plan liabilities. 32 We use the same assumptions for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans where applicable. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated liability discount rate would increase our estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $36 million and the estimated 2007 postretirement medical benefit expense $0.1 million increase in our estimated liability discount rate would decrease our 2007 estimated pension expense approximately $31 million and the estimated 2007 postretirement medical benefit expense approximately $0.3 million. Similarly, holding other assumptions constant, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $14 million increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease pension expense approximately $14 million. Required cash contributions are also sensitive to assumptions; however, we rarely change the assumptions we use to determine contributions to the plan. We anticipate minimum cash funding requirements of $36 million in 2007. Under the new funding rules of the Pension Protection Act, we anticipate funding requirements of $67 million in 2008. Major U.K. Plans Our U.K. pension plans are closed to new entrants, and in November 2006, we proposed ceasing future benefit accruals relating to salary and service in the U.K. plans, subject to trustee approval and member consultation. Proposed changes would take effect in the first half of 2007, and future retirement benefits would be provided in a defined contribution segment of a pension scheme. As of December 31, 2006, our U.K. pension plans have a combined unrecognized loss (from asset and liability experience) of $1,541 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the unrecognized loss outside of a corridor over 16 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of fair value of plan assets or PBO. For 2007, we estimate that this expense amortization will be approximately $71 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense similarly until fully amortized. To calculate pension expense, we use the fair market value of plan assets. Generally, the U.K. plans trustees determine the investment policy for each plan. In total, at the end of the 2006 valuation year, the plans were invested 63% in equities, 32% in fixed income securities, and 5% in real estate, with a fair value of $3,665 million. In determining the expected rate of return, we analyzed investment community forecasts and current market conditions to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plans. We: consider historical performance data by asset class over long periods weight the expected returns for each asset class by actual asset allocations of the plans As a result, we assume a rate of return of 7.2% to determine future pension expense. The table below shows the result of our calculation based on target asset allocation for year end 2006. Because there are eight pension plans maintained in the U.K., the target allocation represents a 33 weighted average of the target allocation of each plan. Further, target allocations are subject to change. The actual return for the 2006 calendar year (9.4%) was in excess of the assumed return. Asset Class Target Allocation Expected Returns Weighted Average Expected Rate Of Return Equities 68% U.K. Equities 37 8.1 % 3.0 % Non U.K. Equities 27 8.5 2.2 Property 4 6.8 0.3 Debt Securities 32 Corporate Bonds/Gilts 32 5.1 1.7 Invested Cash 4.0 Total 7.2 % With respect to U.K. pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated liability discount rate would increase the estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $58 million increase in our estimated liability discount rate would decrease the estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $68 million. Similarly, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $37 million increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $37 million. Cash flow requirements are also sensitive to assumptions; however, we rarely change the assumptions we use for funding the U.K. plans. Under current rules and assumptions, we anticipate U.K. funding requirements of $182 million in both 2007 and 2008. These contributions reflect minimum funding requirements plus other amounts agreed with U.K. plan trustees. Dutch Plan To calculate pension expense, we use the fair market value of plan assets. As of December 31, 2006, the Dutch pension plan had a combined unrecognized loss of $80 million that has not yet been recognized through income in the financial statements. We amortize the unrecognized loss outside of a corridor over 12 years; this corridor is defined as 10% of the greater of fair value of plan assets or PBO. For 2007, we estimate that this amortization will be approximately $3 million. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense similarly until fully amortized. The target asset allocation is 28% global equities, 65% fixed income securities, and 7% real estate, with an allowed deviation of 5%. At year end 2006, actual asset allocation was consistent with target allocation. The expected long term rate of return on assets is 6%, which results from: an expected future return of 8% on equities a 5% return on fixed income investments a 7% return on real estate investments. 34 With respect to Dutch pension liabilities, a one percentage point: decrease in our estimated liability discount rate would increase estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $8 million increase in our estimated liability discount rate would decrease estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $7 million. A one percentage point: decrease in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would increase estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $4 million increase in our estimated long term rate of return on plan assets would decrease estimated 2007 pension expense approximately $4 million. All Plans In addition to the critical assumptions described above, all plans use certain assumptions about the life expectancy of plan participants and surviving spouses. Periodic revision of those assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits, and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Contingencies We define a contingency as any material condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved. Under GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for contingencies when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We do not recognize gain contingencies until the contingency is resolved. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual issue. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each issue, or changes in approach, such as changing our settlement strategy. Policy Liabilities Through our insurance underwriting operations, we collect premiums from policyholders, and we establish liabilities (reserves) to pay benefits to policyholders. The liabilities for policy benefits, claims, and unearned premiums: are a large portion of the total policy liabilities shown on our balance sheet are comprised primarily of estimated future payments to policyholders, policy and contract claims and unearned and advance premiums and contract fees represent our best estimates of what we expect to pay to policyholders in the future. If these liabilities prove inadequate, we would be required to increase the reserves, which could hurt our results and financial condition. Accident & Health and Life To establish policy liabilities, we develop estimates of reported and anticipated claims, based on our historical experience, other actuarial data, and assumptions on investment yields. The actuarial data reflects our best estimates of future expectations regarding claim frequency, claim severity, and the 35 length of time that a customer is insured. Morbidity and mortality patterns may change over time due to many factors including: improvements in the general health of the insured population changes in lifestyle advances in medical diagnosis and treatment the occurrence of a widespread pandemic. We base interest rate assumptions on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality, morbidity, persistency, and interest rate assumptions are set when we issue new insurance policies, we may need to provide for additional losses on a product by: increasing reserves reducing previously capitalized acquisition costs established for that product establishing premium deficiency reserves if there are significant changes in our experience or assumptions. Since estimating and establishing policy and contract liabilities is inherently uncertain, the actual ultimate cost of a claim may vary materially from the estimated amount reserved. Liabilities for incurred but unpaid claims include estimated costs relating to reported claims, and incurred, but not reported, claims. We base the liability for unpaid claims on the estimated ultimate cost of settling claims using best estimates from past experience. These estimates incorporate current trends and any other factors that influence historical data. Actual experience, however, may vary from our estimates, due to changes in claim reporting, processing patterns, and variations from historic averages for the amount paid per claim. Variations from historic patterns and averages could result in additional changes that increase or decrease unpaid claim liabilities. As of December 31, 2006, there were no known changes in reporting or processing patterns. Except for products that meet the definition of FASB Statement No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, we accrue a liability for future policy benefits relating to long duration contracts when we recognize premium revenue. The liability represents the present value of future benefits to be paid to policyholders less the present value of future premiums; we estimate this liability using methods that include estimates of expected investment yields, mortality, morbidity, and policy persistency. Actual experience may vary from our estimates due to emerging trends in morbidity, mortality, persistency, and asset yields and some of these trends can fluctuate significantly over time. As we realize the actual experience, we take into account the financial impacts of these variations from our original assumptions. When current estimates of the present value of future benefits and expenses exceed the present value of future premiums for a product line, we recognize all excess amounts as a loss. We account for long duration contracts meeting the definition of Statement No. 97, such as universal life type products, the same way we account for interest bearing or other financial instruments. We do not report payments received on those contracts as revenue and, correspondingly, we do not establish a policy benefit reserve. The liability for policy benefits is equal to: the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders at the date of the financial statements amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods, and amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable when the contract terminates. 36  Claim Liabilities Reserves for claim liabilities were $506 million, $428 million and $422 million as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A 1% increase in the assumed medical cost trends would reduce pretax income by approximately $3 million. Future Policy Benefits Reserves for future policy benefits were $1,784 million, $1,671 million and $1,542 million as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. If a 1% unfavorable change were to occur in the mortality and morbidity assumptions for both the accident & health and life books of business, pretax income would be decreased by approximately $8 million. Property & Casualty Loss reserves reflect our estimated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses and for reported and unreported losses incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting loss reserve levels is inherently uncertain, we cannot guarantee that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Since we cannot calculate estimated liabilities exactly, reserves represent our best estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, given our informed judgments based on: currently available data future trends in claims severity and frequency judicial theories of liability other factors. Many of these factors are not quantifiable in advance, and both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial and legal developments, and legislative changes, can cause our estimates to vary. The inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves is greater for certain types of liabilities, where the variables affecting the claims are subject to change and long periods of time may elapse before we can definitively determine liability. We: periodically refine our reserve estimates as further losses are reported and settled and we continue to refine our experience. reflect adjustments to reserves in the results of the periods during which such estimates are changed. We estimate loss reserves for all property and casualty lines of business by accident year using several standard actuarial techniques, which include, but are not limited to: incurred and paid loss development methods the Bornhuetter Ferguson method frequency/severity methods. We project ultimate losses on a direct, assumed, ceded and net basis, and deduct paid losses from the selected ultimate losses to arrive at the total indicated reserve. The total reserve includes case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves. Factors influencing loss reserve estimates include the consistency of the results from actuarial techniques and our knowledge of emerging loss trends and rate or benefit changes. 37 Valuation of Investments We periodically review securities with unrealized losses and evaluate them for other than temporary impairment. We analyze various risk factors and determine if any specific asset impairment exists. If there is a specific asset impairment, we recognize a realized loss and adjust the cost basis of the impaired asset to its fair value. We review invested assets with unrealized losses separated into two categories: 1.Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events. 2.Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events. Assets with unrealized losses due to issuer specific events At least quarterly, we review the following types of information, depending on the type of security: the creditworthiness of corporate obligors for changes in ratings and fundamental financial performance of the underlying entity cash flow trends and underlying levels of collateral for asset backed securities issuer financial trends and market expectations based on third party forward looking analytical reports, when available securities whose financial performance has declined for other than temporary impairment. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss when appropriate for these investments with continuous unrealized losses due to issuer specific events. We base our decision on the facts and circumstances for each investment. Assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events Invested assets with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events include those affected by increasing U.S. Treasury or local sovereign interest rates; corporate and asset backed credit spread widening; common stock price volatility due to conditions in the overall market or a particular industry; and illiquid market conditions. In certain circumstances, we assume that a decline in value below cost is temporary for fixed maturity investments, with unrealized losses due to market conditions or industry related events from which the market is expected to recover; and we can hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, which is a decisive factor when considering an impairment loss. If we conclude that we do not have the intent or ability to hold an investment to maturity, we will reevaluate that investment for other than temporary impairment. We evaluate other than temporary impairment for preferred and common stock and other investments with continuous unrealized losses for two consecutive quarters due to market conditions or industry related events. We recognize an other than temporary impairment loss based upon each investments facts and circumstances. We continue to monitor these securities quarterly to ensure that unrealized losses are not the result of issuer specific events. Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements provides additional information about our investments, including unrealized losses segregated by type and period of continuous unrealized loss at December 31, 2006. 38 Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of acquired businesses. We classify our intangible assets as either goodwill, client lists, non compete agreements, future profits of purchased books of business of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries, or other purchased intangibles. Although goodwill is not amortized, we test it for impairment at least annually. We test more frequently if there are indicators of impairment or whenever business circumstances suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. We perform impairment reviews at the reporting unit level. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, we complete further analysis to determine whether there was an impairment loss. No further analysis was required in 2006 or 2005. We determine fair value based on estimates and assumptions related to the amount and timing of future cash flows and future interest rates. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. Share based Payments As discussed in the Explanatory Note, certain stock options granted in prior years were not accounted for correctly. All options granted in prior years were evaluated and, with respect to approximately 85% of the grants, revised measurement dates were derived based upon contemporaneous written evidence of approval. For the remainder, system entry date information was used to determine the measurement date. Absent better approval date information, the system entry date represented the latest date when the terms of the options to individual recipients were known with finality and provided a reasonable and reliable measurement date. Of the cumulative $43 million adjustment, approximately $7 million was attributable to use of the system entry date. Although the system entry date may have been subsequent to the actual approval date for some grants, based on the assessment of the processes in place and a sensitivity analysis of the potential price variance, the impact of any alternative revised measurement dates would be immaterial, cumulatively or in any restated period. On January 1, 2006, Aon adopted FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment ("Statement No. 123(R)"), which requires that we measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and awards as well as employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, based on estimated fair values. Aon adopted Statement No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006, reflect the impact of Statement No. 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, we have not restated the Companys consolidated financial statements for prior periods due to the adoption of Statement No. 123(R). Stock based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion of share based payment awards that we ultimately expect to vest during that period. Stock based compensation expense recognized in our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes compensation expense for share based payment awards granted: before, but not yet vested by, December 31, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated according to the pro forma provisions of Statement No. 123 after December 31, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated according to the provisions of Statement No. 123(R). As the stock based compensation expense we recognize is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Statement No. 123(R) requires that we estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise our estimates, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual 39 forfeitures differ from those estimates. In Aons pro forma information required under Statement No. 123 for periods prior to 2006, we accounted for forfeitures on restricted stock units (RSUs) as they occurred, but estimated forfeitures on stock options. When the terms of an award require no additional service, the award is fully expensed at the grant date. When awards are modified, the incremental shares are accounted for at the fair market value at the date of modification. Expense recognition begins on the date the service period begins, which can precede or be after the grant date, depending on the provisions of the award. Option Accounting Before 2006, Aon was subject to Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations in accounting for its stock based compensation plans. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense was recognized for stock options when the exercise price of the options equaled the market price of the stock at the date of grant. During 2006, we discovered certain errors in relation to measurement dates in options granted prior to 2001. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further details. Following adoption of Statement No. 123(R), we have also changed our method of valuation for stock options granted: in 2006, we moved to a lattice binomial option pricing model from the Black Scholes option pricing model, which we previously used for our pro forma information required under Statement No. 123. Lattice based option valuation models: use a range of assumptions over the expected term of the options estimate expected volatilities based on the average of the historical volatility of Aons stock price and the implied volatility of traded options on Aons stock. Furthermore, we: use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee terminations within the valuation model, differentiating between executives and key employees. base the expected dividend yield assumption on the companys historical and expected future dividend rate. base the risk free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted average period stock options are expected to remain outstanding, which is a derived output of the lattice binomial model. During 2006, we recognized $25 million of expense related to stock options. Service Based RSU Awards Prior to 2006, RSUs granted to employees were generally service based and accounted for by expensing the total award value over the service period. The total award value was calculated by multiplying the total number of shares to be delivered by the quoted market value on the date of grant. Beginning in 2006, we adopted the provisions of Statement No. 123(R), requiring that we apply forfeitures as well as dividend discounts, if appropriate, when determining the fair value of the award to be expensed over the service period. Performance Based Awards Beginning with awards granted in 2006, awards to executives and key employees may also consist of performance based awards, which ultimately result in the receipt of RSUs if the employee achieves his or her objective. Such objectives may be made on a personal or group level. Generally, our 40 performance awards are fixed, which means we determine the fair value of the award at the grant date and recognize the expense over the performance or vesting period, whichever is longer. To expense performance based awards, we: estimate the number of shares to be delivered at the end of the performance period multiplied by the fair value of those shares. recognize the resulting value by multiplying the fair value to be delivered times the percentage of the performance period completed. These estimates take into account performance to date as well as the assessment of future performance. These assessments are made by management using subjective estimates, such as long term plans. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions could have a material impact on the expense recognized. During 2006, we recognized $26 million of expense related to performance based awards, including both individual and group awards. Based on estimates as of December 31, 2006, we will incur an additional $71 million of expense related to these awards between 2007 and 2012. The largest performance based stock plan is the Leadership Performance Plan ("LPP"), which substantially replaced fixed methods of stock compensation to ensure expense is recognized only if targets are achieved. We currently expect to recognize $61 million of expense for the LPP plan over the 3 year performance period (2006 2008), of which $19 million was expensed in 2006. A 10% upward or downward adjustment in our estimated performance targets would increase or decrease expense by approximately $2 million. As the percent of expected performance increases or decreases, the potential change in expense can go from 0% to 150% of the targeted total expense. Liability Awards Awards that have either an indeterminate number of shares to be delivered or are required to be settled in cash are accounted for as liabilities. These liabilities are marked to market at the end of each reporting period at the then fair market value of our stock. Income Taxes We earn income in numerous foreign countries and are subject to the laws of taxing jurisdictions within those countries, as well as U.S. federal and state tax laws. At December 31, 2006, the Company has a $627 million net deferred income tax asset and $216 million income tax refund receivable. The carrying values of deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the application of our income tax accounting policies in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and are based on managements: assumptions and estimates about future operating results and levels of taxable income judgments regarding the interpretation of the provisions of Statement No. 109. We assess carryforwards and tax credits for realization as a reduction of future taxable income by using a "more likely than not" determination. We have not recognized a U.S. deferred tax liability for undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries because they are considered permanently reinvested. Distributions may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes if we either distribute these earnings, or are deemed to have distributed these earnings, according to the Internal Revenue Code. The carrying values of liabilities for income taxes currently payable are based on managements interpretation of applicable tax laws, and incorporate managements assumptions and judgments regarding the use of tax planning strategies in various taxing jurisdictions. Using different estimates, 41 assumptions and judgments in accounting for income taxes, especially those which deploy tax planning strategies, may result in materially different carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities and changes in our results of operations. We operate in many foreign jurisdictions where tax laws relating to the insurance broking, consulting, and underwriting businesses are not well developed. In such jurisdictions, we obtain professional guidance and consider existing industry practices before using tax planning strategies and meeting our tax obligations. Tax returns are routinely subject to audit in most jurisdictions, and tax liabilities are frequently finalized through negotiations. While historically we have not experienced significant adjustments to previously recognized tax assets and liabilities as a result of finalizing tax returns, there can be no assurance that significant adjustments will not arise in the future. In addition, there are several factors that could increase the future level of uncertainty over our tax liabilities, including the following: During recent years, the portion of our overall operations conducted in foreign tax jurisdictions has been increasing, and we anticipate this trend will continue. To deploy tax planning strategies and conduct foreign operations efficiently, our subsidiaries frequently enter into transactions with affiliates, which are generally subject to complex tax regulations and are frequently reviewed by tax authorities. We may conduct future operations in certain tax jurisdictions where tax laws are not well developed, and it may be difficult to secure adequate professional guidance. Tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties change frequently, requiring us to modify existing tax strategies to conform to such changes. In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which are recognized in a companys financial statements in accordance with Statement No. 109. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement of a tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in a companys tax return. We are required to adopt FIN 48 in first quarter 2007 and are evaluating the impact FIN 48 will have, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS General In our discussion of operating results, we sometimes refer to supplemental information derived from consolidated financial information. We use supplemental information related to organic revenue growth to help us and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, and unusual items. Organic revenue growth for the underwriting segment is based on premiums written. Supplemental organic revenue growth information should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our consolidated statements of income. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments. Since we conduct business in more than 120 countries, foreign exchange rate fluctuations have a significant impact on our business. In comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign exchange rate movements 42 may be significant and may distort true period to period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, we have: isolated the impact of the change in currencies between periods by providing percentage changes on a comparable currency basis for revenue, and have disclosed the effect on earnings per share. provided this form of reporting to give financial statement users more meaningful information about our operations. Some tables in the segment discussions reconcile organic revenue growth percentages to the reported revenue growth percentages for the segments and subsegments. We separately disclose the impact of foreign currency as well as the impact from acquisitions, divestitures, and transfers of business units, which represent the most significant reconciling items. In an "all other" category, we total other reconciling items that are not generally significant individually or in the aggregate. If there is a significant individual reconciling item within the "all other" category, we provide additional disclosure in a note. 43  Summary of Results for 2004 through 2006 The consolidated results of continuing operations follow: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenue: Commissions and fees $ 6,677 $ 6,466 $ 6,591 Premiums and other 1,918 1,759 1,742 Investment income 359 271 274 Total consolidated revenue 8,954 8,496 8,607 Expenses: General expenses 6,523 6,346 6,339 Benefits to policyholders 1,142 952 940 Depreciation and amortization 237 260 279 Interest expense 129 125 136 Provision for New York and other state settlements 3 5 180 Total expenses 8,034 7,688 7,874 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax $ 920 $ 808 $ 733 Pretax margin continuing operations 10.3 % 9.5 % 8.5 % Consolidated Results for 2006 Compared to 2005 Revenue During 2006, compared to the prior year: Commissions and fees increased $211 million or 3% driven by 2% organic revenue growth in Risk and Insurance Brokerage and 4% organic revenue growth in Consulting. Premiums and other increased $159 million or 9%, driven by 11% organic revenue growth in our accident & health and life business resulting from strong growth in our supplemental health product, partially offset by reductions in property and casualty runoff programs. Investment income increased $88 million or 32%. The increase was driven primarily by higher interest rates and a $35 million gain recognized in connection with the contribution of a certain investment to a U.K. pension plan. Investment income includes related investment expense and income or loss on investment disposals and impairments. Consolidated revenue by geographic area follows: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 % of Total 2005 % of Total 2004 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 4,185 47 % $ 3,932 46 % $ 4,116 48 % Americas, other than U.S. 940 10 844 10 763 9 United Kingdom 1,384 16 1,428 17 1,491 17 Europe, Middle East & Africa 1,787 20 1,672 20 1,644 19 Asia Pacific 658 7 620 7 593 7 Total revenue $ 8,954 100 % $ 8,496 100 % $ 8,607 100 % 44 We attribute revenues to geographic areas based on the location of the resources producing the revenues. U.S. revenues increased $253 million or 6%, reflecting improved results in our retail business, increases in sales of our supplemental health product, and increased investment income. Americas other than U.S. revenues increased $96 million or 11%, due to strong growth in Latin America. U.K. revenues declined $44 million or 3% as improvements in our accident & health and life and consulting businesses were more than offset by softness in our retail and reinsurance lines. Europe, Middle East & Africa revenues increased $115 million or 7%, as a result of acquisitions and organic revenue growth in our retail business. Asia Pacific revenue increased $38 million to $658 million, driven by acquisitions and organic revenue growth in emerging markets in Asia. Expenses Total expenses increased $346 million or 5% from 2005 for three primary reasons: General expenses increased $177 million or 3%, primarily reflecting increased compensation and benefits costs, unfavorable foreign exchange, and hedging losses. Benefits to policyholders increased $190 million or 20% due to growth in our supplemental health product and property and casualty reserve strengthening. Depreciation and amortization decreased $23 million reflecting asset disposals and impairments in prior years. Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Income Tax Income from continuing operations was $920 million compared to $808 million in 2005. The increase in income was driven by organic revenue growth across each segment along with estimated restructuring savings of $119 million, partially offset by increases in benefits to policyholders and higher compensation and benefits costs. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 32.0% in 2006 and 29.7% in 2005. Differences between the overall effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate are typically due to U.S. state income taxes and differences between U.S. and international tax rates. Changes in the mix between our U.S. and international pretax income directly affect our effective tax rates. In 2006 and 2005, our effective tax rate also reflects the favorable resolution of tax examination issues, adjustments, and tax credits. For a summary of these effects, please see the rate reconciliation provided in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Income from Continuing Operations In 2006, compared to 2005: Income from continuing operations rose to $626 million ($1.86 per diluted income per share) from $568 million ($1.68 per diluted income per share). Hedging and currency translation losses were $0.03 and $0.04 per share, respectively, which were included in income from continuing operations in 2006. Hedging and currency translation gains of $0.08 and $0.05 per share, respectively, were included in 2005. 45 Basic income per share from continuing operations increased to $1.98 from $1.75. To compute income per share in 2005, we have deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. The redeemable preferred stock was redeemed and retired in September 2005. To comply with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Investments on Diluted Earnings per Share, we increased diluted shares outstanding by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. When calculating the diluted income per share, we added after tax interest expense on these debt securities to income from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations After tax income from discontinued operations was: $93 million in 2006 ($0.29 and $0.27 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively). These results include eleven months of operations of AWG and CPG, as those businesses were sold on November 30, 2006, and the gain on the sale of those operations ($0.03 per both basic and diluted income per share). $167 million in 2005 ($0.52 and $0.49 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively). Results in 2005 include twelve months of results for AWG and CPG ($0.22 per basic and $0.21 diluted income per share), along with nine months of operations and the gain on sale ($0.33 per basic and $0.31 per diluted income per share) of our Swett & Crawford operation. Consolidated Results for 2005 Compared to 2004 Revenue In 2005, compared to the prior year: Commissions and fees decreased by $125 million or 2%, driven by $100 million in lower contingent commission revenue and net dispositions of $168 million, partially offset by strong renewals and new business. Premiums and other increased $17 million or 1%, driven by growth in our core products and favorable exchange rates, partially offset by reductions in runoff programs. Investment income decreased $3 million or 1%. Investment income includes related investment expense and income or loss on investment disposals and impairments. By Geography: U.S. revenue, which represented 46% of total revenue, decreased $184 million or 4%. The decrease primarily reflected the 2004 sale of Cambridge. Americas other than U.S. revenue increased 11% to $844 million, as a result of growth in Latin America and favorable foreign exchange rates. U.K. revenue decreased $63 million or 4%; this decline reflected a soft U.K. market and changes in the model for compensation from underwriters, partially offset by a refinement in the techniques we used to estimate installment revenue in the U.K., which added $23 million to revenue in 2005. Europe, Middle East & Africa revenue increased 2% to $1.7 billion, due to higher revenue in France, Austria, Sweden and Africa. Asia Pacific revenue increased $27 million or 5% to $620 million, reflecting growth in Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 46 Expenses Total expenses decreased $186 million or 2% from 2004 for three primary reasons: The 2004 expense from the New York Attorney General ("NYAG") and other regulatory authorities as well as the Daniel class action settlements, which accounted for $220 million of expenses in 2004. Cambridge expenses, which were $223 million in 2004. This unit was sold in the fourth quarter of 2004. Our continued focus on reducing expenses. These favorable impacts were partially offset by $158 million in restructuring related expenses. Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Income Tax Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax increased $75 million to $808 million; as previously discussed, this fluctuation reflects several significant items. Provision for Income Taxes Differences between the overall effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate are typically due to U.S. state income taxes and differences between U.S. and international tax rates. Changes in the mix between our U.S. and international pretax income directly affect our effective tax rates. The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was: 29.7% in 2005 reflecting the favorable resolution of tax examination issues 34.0% in 2004 which was reduced by a one time tax benefit resulting from the difference between our tax and book basis in Cambridge, which was sold in 2004. Income from Continuing Operations In 2005, compared to 2004: Income from continuing operations increased to $568 million ($1.68 per diluted income per share) from $484 million ($1.45 per diluted income per share). Hedging and currency translation gains added $0.08 and $0.05 per share, respectively, to income from continuing operations in 2005. In 2004, hedging and currency translation gains were $0.11 and $0.07 per share, respectively. Basic income per share from continuing operations rose to $1.75 from $1.51. To compute income per share, we deducted dividends paid on the redeemable preferred stock from net income. To comply with EITF No. 04 8, we increased diluted shares outstanding by 14 million to reflect the possible conversion of Aons 3.5% convertible debt securities. When calculating the diluted income per share, we added after tax interest expense on these debt securities to income from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations After tax income from discontinued operations was: $167 million in 2005 ($0.52 and $0.49 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively). This increase was due to improved operations at AWG and CPG, along with the gain on the sale of our Swett & Crawford operation ($0.33 and $0.31 per basic and diluted income per share, respectively), partially offset by lower operating results at Swett. $59 million in 2004 ($0.18 per both basic and diluted income per share). 47 REVIEW BY SEGMENT General Aon classifies its businesses into three operating segments: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services, Consulting and Insurance Underwriting (see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). Aons operating segments are identified as those that: report separate financial information are evaluated regularly when we are deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Segment revenue includes investment income generated by invested assets of that segment, as well as the impact of related derivatives. Investment characteristics mirror liability characteristics of the respective segments: Our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting businesses invest funds held on behalf of clients and operating funds in short term obligations. In Insurance Underwriting, policyholder claims and other types of non interest sensitive insurance liabilities are primarily supported by intermediate to long term fixed maturity instruments. For this business segment, operating invested assets are approximately equal to average net policy liabilities. Our insurance subsidiaries have invested assets that exceed net policy liabilities, which allow us to maintain solid claims paying ratings. Income from these investments is reflected in unallocated revenues. The following tables and commentary provide selected financial information on the operating segments. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Operating segment revenue: (1) Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 5,628 $ 5,367 $ 5,468 Consulting 1,282 1,255 1,247 Insurance Underwriting 2,046 1,875 1,848 Income before income tax: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services $ 841 $ 702 $ 562 Consulting 120 110 105 Insurance Underwriting 137 185 181 Pretax margins: Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services 14.9 % 13.1 % 10.3% Consulting 9.4 % 8.8 % 8.4% Insurance Underwriting 6.7 % 9.9 % 9.8% (1)Intersegment revenues of $59 million, $46 million and $58 million were included in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 48  Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services Aon is a leader in many sectors of the insurance industry: globally, it is the largest insurance broker, the largest reinsurance broker, and the leading manager of captive insurance companies worldwide. These rankings are based on the most recent surveys compiled and reports printed by Business Insurance. Changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry, as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds. Insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. Heavier than anticipated loss experience or capital shortages can result in increasing premium rates, which is referred to as a "hard market." A hard market tends to favorably impact commission revenues. Conversely, increased competition for market share among insurance carriers or increased underwriting capacity can result in flat or reduced premium rates, or a "soft market." A soft market tends to put downward pressure on commission revenues. Hard and soft markets may be broad based or more narrowly focused across certain product lines or geographic areas. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services generated approximately 63% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2006. Revenues are generated primarily through: fees paid by clients commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies interest income on funds held on behalf of clients. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of: the timing of our clients policy renewals the net effect of new and lost business the timing of services provided to our clients the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short term interest rates. Our risk brokerage companies operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with many retail insurance brokerage and agency firms, as well as with individual brokers, agents, and direct writers of insurance coverage. Specifically, this segment: addresses the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of commercial enterprises, professional groups, insurance companies, governments, healthcare providers, and non profit groups, among others provides affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income, and personal lines for individuals, associations, and businesses provides reinsurance services to insurance and reinsurance companies and other risk assumption entities by acting as brokers or intermediaries on all classes of reinsurance provides managing underwriting and premium finance services to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients provides actuarial, loss prevention, and administrative services to businesses and consumers manages captive insurance companies. 49 We review our revenue results using the following subsegments: Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage encompasses our retail brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement and captive management services, and premium finance services in the following areas: Americas; United Kingdom; Europe, Middle East & Africa; and Asia Pacific. Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services (Reinsurance) offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that: enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios improve capital utilization evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide. Claims Services (Claims) offered claims administration and loss cost management services. We exited these activities in 2004 by selling our U.S. and U.K. claims administration businesses. Revenue This table details Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by subsegment: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Americas $ 2,319 $ 2,139 $ 2,038 United Kingdom 732 792 808 Europe, Middle East & Africa 1,177 1,150 1,123 Asia Pacific 478 441 426 Reinsurance 922 845 861 Claims 212 Total revenue $ 5,628 $ 5,367 $ 5,468 In 2006, revenue increased $261 million or 5% from 2005 due to growth in our retail and reinsurance operation and higher investment income, partially offset by weakness in the U.K. This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2006 versus 2005: Year ended December 31, 2006 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Americas 8 % 1 % 2 % 2 % 3 % United Kingdom (8 ) 1 (3 ) (4 ) (2 ) Europe, Middle East & Africa 2 (1 ) 3 (2 ) 2 Asia Pacific 8 (1 ) 3 1 5 Reinsurance 9 (1 ) 1 6 3 Total revenue 5 % % 2 % 1 % 2 % Organic revenue growth for the entire segment was 2%. The 8% reported growth in Americas reflects: improved performance in U.S. retail a $35 million gain related to the contribution of a preferred stock investment to one of our U.K. pension plans, received in connection with the sale of our Cambridge operation. 50 the transfer of certain small businesses from Consulting increased investment income favorable foreign exchange rates. U.K. revenue fell 8%. Organic revenue decreased 2%, driven by revenue declines from soft pricing, low retention rates, and lower new business. In addition, 2005 revenue included $23 million resulting from refinement of the techniques we used to estimate revenues on installment contracts. This refinement has been excluded from our calculation of organic revenue growth. Europe, Middle East & Africa revenue was up 2%, driven by acquisitions and organic revenue growth especially in Africa, the Middle East, Netherlands, Spain, and France, and partially offset by declines in Germany and the Nordic region. Asia Pacific revenue rose 8%, driven by acquisitions and organic growth in emerging markets in Asia. Reinsurance revenue improved 9%, due to higher investment income and organic revenue growth in most areas of the world. This table shows Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue by geographic area and total pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 % of Total 2005 % of Total 2004 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 2,133 38 % $ 1,982 37 % $ 2,122 39 % Americas, other than U.S. 586 10 530 10 495 9 United Kingdom 946 17 1,021 19 1,056 19 Europe, Middle East & Africa 1,439 26 1,344 25 1,319 24 Asia Pacific 524 9 490 9 476 9 Total revenue $ 5,628 100 % $ 5,367 100 % $ 5,468 100 % Income before income tax $ 841 $ 702 $ 562 U.S. revenue rose 8% over 2005 as a result of organic revenue growth, increased investment income, including the gain on the contribution of a preferred stock, and the realignment of certain businesses from Consulting. Americas other than U.S. revenue increased 11% due to growth in Latin America. The decline in U.K. revenues reflect low retention rates, lower new businesses, and the restructuring of the U.K. insurance market. Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia Pacific revenue both rose 7%, due to acquisitions and organic revenue growth. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income increased $139 million or 20% from 2005 to $841 million. In 2006, pretax margins in this segment were 14.9%, up from 13.1% in 2005. Our results improved primarily as a result of five factors: estimated savings of $97 million achieved as a result of the restructuring program an increase in investment income of $67 million, including the $35 million gain on the contribution of a preferred stock 51 improved margins in U.S. retail a $30 million gain on the sale of a building in Spain $7 million reduction in restructuring charges. Negative impacts to this years income and margins included higher staff expense, driven principally by increased incentives and benefit costs. Consulting Aon Consulting is one of the worlds largest integrated human capital consulting organizations. Our consulting segment: provides a broad range of consulting services generated 14% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2006. We review our revenue results using the following subsegments: Consulting Services, which provides consulting services in six practice areas: 1.Employee Benefits advises clients about how to structure, fund, and administer employee benefit programs that attract, retain, and motivate employees. Benefits consulting includes health and welfare, retirement, executive benefits, absence management, compliance, employer commitment, investment advisory and elective benefit services. 2.Compensation focuses on designing salary, bonus, commission, stock option, and other pay structures, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries. 3.Management Consulting assists clients in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human capital development, and change management. 4.Communications advises clients on how to communicate initiatives that support their corporate vision. 5.Strategic Human Resource Consulting advises complex global organizations on talent, change and organization effectiveness issues, including assessment, selection performance management, succession planning, organization design and related people management programs. 6.Financial Advisory and Litigation Consulting provide consulting services including white collar and financial statement investigation, securities litigation, financial due diligence, financial valuation services, and other related specialties. Outsourcing, which offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration and other employment related services. 52 Revenue In 2006, revenues of $1,282 million were 2% over 2005. Revenue on an organic basis was up 4% from last year. This table details Consulting revenue by subsegment. (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Consulting services $ 989 $ 981 $ 949 Outsourcing 293 274 298 Total revenue $ 1,282 $ 1,255 $ 1,247 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2006 versus 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: Acquisitions, Divestitures & Transfers Less: All Other Organic Revenue Growth Consulting services 1 % 1 % (4 )% % 4 % Outsourcing 7 1 2 (1 ) 5 Total revenue 2 % 1 % (2 )% (1 )% 4 % On a subsegment basis, Consulting services was up $8 million or 1%, resulting from: Growth in the U.K., driven by pension revaluation engagements mandated by recent pension reforms in that country Revenue from our new Financial Advisory and Litigation Consulting practice Growth in compensation consulting. This growth more than offset a decline in our health and welfare practice and the transfer of certain small units to the Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment. Outsourcing revenue rose 7% during the year, due primarily to $13 million of fees we received from a client terminating an outsourcing contract, as well as from an acquisition made late in 2005. This table shows Consulting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 % of Total 2005 % of Total 2004 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 708 55 % $ 730 58 % $ 754 61 % Americas, other than U.S. 113 9 100 8 91 7 United Kingdom 228 18 206 16 213 17 Europe, Middle East & Africa 197 15 186 15 162 13 Asia Pacific 36 3 33 3 27 2 Total revenue $ 1,282 100 % $ 1,255 100 % $ 1,247 100 % Income before income tax $ 120 $ 110 $ 105 U.S. revenue decreased in 2006, primarily reflecting lower revenue in the health and welfare practice, offset in part by the termination fee previously noted. Americas other than U.S. revenue grew 13%, reflecting improved results in Canada and favorable foreign exchange. United Kingdom revenue rose 11%, due to growth in pension revaluation consulting as discussed previously. Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia Pacific increases were due to organic revenue growth. 53  Income Before Income Tax Pretax income was $120 million, up $10 million or 9% from 2005. 2006 pretax margins in this segment were 9.4%, up from 8.8% in 2005. The following items affected the year to year comparisons: Organic revenue growth, especially in the U.K., increased income before income tax and pretax margins. Start up costs for the Financial Advisory & Litigation Consulting practice reduced both profits and margins. Restructuring costs increased $12 million over 2005. The $13 million termination fee discussed above was offset by $13 million of expenses related to the termination of the contract, resulting in no net impact to income before income taxes. Insurance Underwriting The Insurance Underwriting segment: provides accident, health, and life insurance coverage mostly through direct distribution networks, primarily through more than 7,000 career insurance agents working for our subsidiaries. Our revenues are affected by our success in attracting and retaining these career agents. previously offered select commercial property and casualty business on a limited basis through managing general underwriters. We have ceased writing property and casualty business and have placed all programs in runoff. has operations in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia Pacific. generated approximately 23% of Aons total operating segment revenues in 2006. Revenue Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth in this segment; however, reported revenues reflect earned premiums and fees. We review our revenue results using the following subsegments: Accident & Health and Life, through which we provide an array of accident, sickness, short term disability, and other insurance products. Most of these products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations and are not subject to escalating medical cost inflation. Property and Casualty We have ceased writing property and casualty business. This subsegment is entirely composed of runoff liabilities pertaining to various personal and commercial risks we formerly underwrote, such as: professional liability errors and omissions excess liability workers compensation commercial property and casualty risk. In this subsegment, we formerly included the results of our warranty and credit operations, as well as a portion of our specialty property and casualty business, CPG. We divested these businesses in 54 November 2006, as discussed in Key Recent Events, and the results of those businesses and the sale transactions are included in discontinued operations. The table below reflects written and earned premiums and associated reserves: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Written premiums: Accident & health and life $ 1,466 $ 1,476 $ 1,461 Property & casualty 34 13 104 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 1,500 $ 1,489 $ 1,565 Earned premiums: Accident & health and life $ 1,884 $ 1,696 $ 1,620 Property & casualty 34 63 122 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 1,918 $ 1,759 $ 1,742 Policy and Contract Claim Liabilities: Accident & health and life $ 506 $ 428 $ 422 Property & casualty (1) 150 1,022 1,068 Total Insurance Underwriting $ 656 $ 1,450 $ 1,490 (1)See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by subsegment: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Accident & health and life $ 2,005 $ 1,805 $ 1,721 Property & casualty 41 70 127 Total revenue $ 2,046 $ 1,875 $ 1,848 This table reconciles organic revenue growth to reported revenue growth in 2006 versus 2005: Year ended December 31, 2006 Reported Revenue Growth Less: Currency Impact Less: All Other(1) Organic Revenue Growth Accident & health and life 11 % 1 % (1 )% 11 % Property & casualty (41 ) N/A N/A N/A Total revenue 9 % 1 % (5 )% 13 % (1)The difference between written and earned premiums and fees, as a percentage change, was (1)% for accident & health and life and (2)% for total revenue. (2)Organic revenue growth for property and casualty is no longer meaningful as the remaining business is in run off. In 2006, revenues of $2.0 billion increased 9% over 2005. In Accident & health and life, revenue increased $200 million, or 11%, primarily driven by strong growth in a supplemental health product, favorable impact from foreign exchange rates, and higher investment income. Property & casualty revenue decreased $29 million, primarily due to the decision to run off the property and casualty business in 2006. 55 This table details Insurance Underwriting revenue by geographic area and pretax income: (millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 % of Total 2005 % of Total 2004 % of Total Revenue by geographic area: United States $ 1,397 68 % $ 1,267 68 % $ 1,226 66 % Americas, other than U.S. 212 10 189 10 167 9 United Kingdom 202 10 194 10 215 12 Europe, Middle East & Africa 143 7 134 7 155 8 Asia Pacific 92 5 91 5 85 5 Total revenue $ 2,046 100 % $ 1,875 100 % $ 1,848 100 % Income before income taxes $ 137 $ 185 $ 181 Improvements in revenues from: U.S. represents growth in a supplemental health product which more than offset a decline in other accident & health and life core products. Americas other than U.S. reflect organic revenue growth in Canada, along with favorable foreign exchange rates. The U.K. and Europe, Middle East & Africa represents organic revenue growth. Income Before Income Tax Pretax income of $137 million decreased 26% from 2005. Pretax margins fell from 9.9% in 2005 to 6.7% in 2006. Both decreases are primarily attributable to an $81 million reserve increase recorded in third quarter 2006 in our property and casualty subsegment. See the Key Recent Events section. Unallocated Income and Expense Unallocated income consists primarily of investment income (including income or loss on investment disposals and other than temporary impairment losses), which is not otherwise reflected in the operating segments. We include: invested assets and related investment income not directly required to support the risk and insurance brokerage services and consulting businesses the assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries and related income. Unallocated income included: income from Endurance common stock, which was accounted for under the equity method before the sale of virtually all of our holdings in December 2004 changes in the valuation of Endurance warrants. Through March 31, 2006, we carried our investment in Endurance warrants at fair value and recorded changes in the fair value through unallocated investment income. On March 31, 2006, the investment in Endurance warrants was contributed to our U.K. pension plans. Private equities are principally carried at cost; however, where we have significant influence, they are carried under the equity method. These investments usually do not pay dividends. Limited partnerships (LP) are accounted for under the equity method and changes in the value of the underlying LP investments flow through unallocated investment income. 56 Unallocated income rose $12 million in 2006 to $57 million. Increased investment income due to higher interest rates and amounts invested, along with lower losses on disposals of securities more than offset the impact of negative mark to market adjustments to our Endurance warrants in 2006 ($17 million), versus a positive adjustment in 2005 ($10 million). Unallocated expenses include corporate governance costs not attributable to the operating segments. These expenses decreased to $106 million in 2006 from $109 million in 2005. Interest expense, which represents the cost of our worldwide debt obligations, rose $4 million in 2006 to $129 million due to carrying higher debt balances and refinancing part of our Euro facility balance to a 5.05% fixed rate note due in 2011. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Liquidity Our operating subsidiaries obtain their liquidity through selling their products and services and collecting their receivables. Funds collected are used to pay creditors and employees and to fund acquisitions. Funds that we are holding on behalf of clients and to satisfy policyholder liabilities are segregated and are not available for other uses. We believe that our operating subsidiaries will have adequate liquidity to meet their needs in the foreseeable future and to provide funds to the parent company. Payment of dividends from our underwriting subsidiaries are limited by government regulation and depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries. Our parent companys routine liquidity needs include paying corporate expenses, servicing debt and paying dividends on Aons outstanding stock. Our primary source for meeting these requirements is from dividends and internal financing from our operating subsidiaries. Other uses of available liquidity are for capital expenditures and the repurchase of common stock. Cash in our consolidated statements of financial position includes funds available for operations. During 2006, we: paid the second $76 million installment of the $190 million required under the settlement we reached with the NYAG and other regulatory authorities. We are scheduled to pay the remaining $38 million in 2007. In addition to the NYAG and other regulatory authorities investigations, we have $40 million accrued for the settlement in the Daniel class action lawsuit and related costs. received approximately $800 million in gross cash proceeds from the sales of AWG and CPG. spent $1,048 million to repurchase 28.4 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. In 2006, total cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans were $185 million. In addition, we contributed $166 million of non cash financial instruments to our U.K. pension plans. The total contributed of $351 million represents a $112 million decrease from 2005. Under current rules and assumptions, we currently anticipate 2007 contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans of approximately $233 million. In connection with one of our U.K. pension plans, our principal U.K. subsidiary has agreed with the trustees of the plan to contribute &pound;20 million ($39 million) per year to the plan for six years with the amount payable increasing by 5.3% on each January 1, which began in 2005. These contributions are in addition to the normal employer contributions to the plan. The trustees of the plan: have certain rights to request that our U.K. subsidiary advance an amount equal to an actuarially determined winding up deficit. As of December 31, 2005, the estimated winding up deficit was &pound;350 million ($688 million at December 31, 2006 exchange rates). have accepted in practice the agreed upon schedule of contributions and have not requested an advance. 57  Cash Flows Cash flows from operations represent the net income we earned in the reported periods adjusted for non cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: (millions) Twelve months ended December 31 2006 2005 Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows (including AWG) $ 522 $ 423 All other operating cash flows 596 463 $ 1,118 $ 886 Change in funds held on behalf of brokerage and consulting clients (150 ) Cash provided by operating activities $ 968 $ 886 Insurance Underwriting operating cash flows For cash flow reporting, our insurance underwriting operations include accident & health and life and warranty, credit and property & casualty businesses. These insurance products have distinct differences in the timing of premiums earned and payment of future liabilities. The operating cash flow from our insurance subsidiaries, which also includes related corporate items, was $522 million for 2006, an increase of $99 million compared to 2005. Included in these cash flows are the operations of AWG and CPG through November 30, 2006, the date of sale. The increase in operating cash flows was primarily related to organic revenue growth. For 2006, operating cash flows, analyzed by major income statement component, indicated that premium and other fees collected, net of reinsurance, were $3,546 million compared to $3,193 million in 2005. Investment and other miscellaneous income received was $235 million and $227 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Investment income improved in 2006 due to favorable interest rates and an increase in invested assets. We used revenues generated from premiums, investments and other miscellaneous income to pay claims and other cash benefits, commissions, general expenses and taxes. Claims and other cash benefits paid were $1,632 million in 2006 versus $1,393 million in 2005. Commissions and general expenses paid were $1,483 million for 2006, compared to $1,446 million in 2005. Tax payments for 2006 were $144 million compared to $158 million last year. We will invest and use operating cash flows to satisfy future benefits to policyholders and when appropriate, make them available to pay dividends to the Aon parent company. During 2006, Combined Insurance Company of America, one of our major underwriting subsidiaries, declared and paid a cash dividend of $250 million to Aon. At the time of sale, AWG made a dividend to Aon of $361 million, of which $66 million was in cash and $295 million was a dividend in kind, which were primarily equity investments. Aon received proceeds of $662 million from the sale of AWG and CPG, net of direct costs and cash sold. Generally, we invest in highly liquid and marketable investment grade securities to support policy liabilities. These invested assets are subject to insurance regulations set forth by the various governmental jurisdictions in which we operate, both domestically and internationally. The insurance regulations may restrict both the quantity and quality of various types of assets within the portfolios. Our insurance subsidiaries policy liabilities are segmented among multiple accident and health and property casualty portfolios. Those portfolios have widely varying estimated durations and interest rate characteristics. Generally, our policy liabilities are not subject to interest rate volatility risk. Therefore, in many of the portfolios, asset and policy liability duration are not closely matched. Interest rate sensitive policy liabilities are generally supported by floating rate assets. 58 Funds held on behalf of clients In our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments, we typically hold funds on behalf of clients as a result of: premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers. These premiums held on behalf of, or due from, clients are reported as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurer. claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. Claims held by, or due to us and which are due to clients, are also shown as both assets and liabilities. These funds held on behalf of clients are generally invested in interest bearing trust accounts and can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect cash from our clients and when premiums are remitted to the insurance carriers. All other operating cash flows The operating cash flow from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments, as well as related corporate items, was $596 million in 2006 compared to $463 million in 2005. These amounts exclude the change in funds held on behalf of clients as described above. The operating cash flows depend on the timing of receipts and payments related to revenues, incentive compensation, other operating expenses and income taxes. Comparing 2006 to 2005, the net increase in cash from our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting segments and related corporate items of $133 million was primarily influenced by higher non cash incentives, investment income, and organic revenue growth. Aon uses the excess cash generated by our brokerage and consulting businesses as well as dividends received from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet its liquidity needs, which consist of servicing its debt, paying dividends to its stockholders and repurchasing outstanding shares. Investing and Financing Activities We used the consolidated cash flow from operations (net of funds held on behalf of clients) for: investing activities of $190 million. The cash flows used by investing activities included purchases of investments, net of sales, of $582 million; capital expenditures, net of disposals, of $152 million; and cash provided by investing activities from divestitures of subsidiaries, net of acquisitions, of $544 million. financing needs of $964 million. Financing uses primarily included cash dividends paid to shareholders of $189 million, and net share activity of $916 million. Financing provided cash of $141 million from debt issuances, net of repayments. Financial Condition Comparing year end 2006 with year end 2005: Total assets decreased $3.5 billion to $24.3 billion. The major reason for the decline is the sale of AWG and CPG, which had assets of $4.2 billion at December 31, 2005. Total investments increased $0.5 billion to $7.6 billion. Fixed maturities increased $138 million. Short term investments increased $452 million, primarily as a result of funds received in connection with the sales of AWG and CPG. 59 Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services and Consulting premium and fee receivables increased $668 million. Insurance premiums payable increased $324 million over the same period. The increase in receivables and payables reflects: the timing of receipts and payments client demands for risk programs the effect of foreign exchange rates. Other assets decreased $180 million. Other assets are comprised principally of prepaid premiums related to reinsurance and prepaid pension assets. The decline from last year primarily reflects the impact of adopting FASB Statement No. 158 in 2006. Policy liabilities decreased $652 million to $2.8 billion due to a decline in policy and contract claims. Other receivables declined in a similar manner. In connection with the sale of AWG and CPG, certain reinsured property and casualty balances that were previously reported in policy liabilities and other receivables are no longer direct obligations of Aon and, therefore, are no longer reported in Aons consolidated statement of financial position. Aon has issued a corporate guarantee covering these reinsurance balances. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Investments We invest in broad asset categories related to our diversified operations. In managing our investments, our objective is to maximize earnings while monitoring asset and liability durations, interest and credit risks, and regulatory requirements. We do not allocate to the operating segments: invested assets or related investment income not directly required to support the insurance brokerage and consulting businesses or assets in excess of net policyholder liabilities of the underwriting business and related income. These insurance assets are publicly traded equities, as well as less liquid private equities and LPs. These assets, owned by the insurance underwriting companies: are necessary to support strong claims paying ratings by independent rating agencies are unavailable for other uses, such as debt reduction or share repurchases, without considering regulatory requirements (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our investments. Borrowings Total debt at December 31, 2006, was $2.3 billion, an increase of $173 million from December 31, 2005. Our notes payable increased by $138 million compared to year end 2005. This increase results from issuing CAD 375 million (U.S. $323 million at December 31, 2006) of 5.05% senior unsecured debentures due in 2011, offset by a partial reduction in the amount borrowed under our Euro credit facility. Our total debt as a percentage of total capital was 30.5% and 28.4% at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have disclosed future payments of notes payable and operating lease commitments (with initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms in excess of one year) in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 60 In 2002, we completed an offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% convertible senior debentures due 2012. The debentures are unsecured obligations and are convertible into our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $21.475 per common share under certain circumstances, including the following: If the closing price of our common stock during any fiscal quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price (i.e. $25.77) for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the previous fiscal quarter. Or Subject to certain exceptions, during five business days after any ten consecutive trading days in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the debentures for each day of the ten trading day period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale price of our common stock and the number of shares issuable upon conversion of $1,000 principal amount of the debentures. Aon has reserved approximately 14 million shares for the potential conversion of these debentures. At December 31, 2006, we had a $600 million unused U.S. committed bank credit facility, which expires in February 2010, to support commercial paper and other short term borrowings. This facility allows us to issue up to $150 million in letters of credit. We also have several foreign credit facilities available. At December 31, 2006, we had available to us: a five year &euro;650 million ($853 million) multi currency facility, of which $403 million was outstanding at December 31, 2006. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on both the U.S. and Euro facilities. &pound;37.5 million ($74 million) facility, a 364 day 10 million Canadian dollar (U.S. $9 million) facility, and a 364 day &euro;25 million (U.S. $33 million) facility. a &euro;20 million (U.S. $26 million) open ended facility. The major rating agencies ratings of our debt at February 19, 2007 appear in the table below: Senior long term debt Commercial paper Rating Outlook Rating Outlook Standard & Poors BBB+ Stable A 2 Positive Moodys Investor Services Baa2 Positive P 2 Positive Fitch, Inc. BBB+ Stable F 2 Stable During 2006, Moodys Investor Services changed its outlook on Aon to positive from stable for both our senior long term debt and commercial paper. Standard & Poors changed its outlook on Aons senior long term debt from positive to stable. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper would: increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. increase our commercial paper interest rates or possibly restrict our access to the commercial paper market altogether. Although we have committed backup lines, we cannot ensure that our financial position will not be hurt if we can no longer access the commercial paper market. 61 Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $99 million during 2006 to $5.2 billion, driven primarily by an $886 million increase in treasury stock repurchases, net of reissuance of stock in connection with employee benefit plans. Offsetting this decline were increases in equity of: $720 million of net income $178 million in paid in capital principally due to stock issued in connection with employee benefit plans. Accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased $145 million since December 31, 2005. Compared to year end 2005: net foreign exchange translation increased by $237 million because of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies net derivative gains increased $26 million net unrealized investment gains rose $21 million our net additional minimum pension liability adjustment decreased by $210 million. In addition, the impact of the adoption of Statement No. 158 increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss by $349 million. For 2007, we project we will make $233 million in cash contributions to our major defined benefit pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more cash or certain non cash assets to the plans. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We record various contractual obligations as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but we are required to disclose them. Aon and its subsidiaries have issued letters of credit to cover contingent payments of approximately $32 million for taxes and other business obligations to third parties. We accrue amounts in our consolidated financial statements for these letters of credit to the extent they are probable and estimable. Following the guidance of FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and other relevant accounting guidance, we use special purpose entities and qualifying special purpose entities ("QSPEs"), also known as special purpose vehicles, in some of our operations. Reinsurance Guarantee In connection with the AWG transaction we issued an indemnification which protects the purchaser from credit exposure relating to the property and casualty reserves that have been reinsured. We recorded a $13 million liability reflecting the fair value of this indemnification as of November 30, 2006. The loss was included in the AWG gain. The value remained approximately $13 million as of December 31, 2006. The indemnification represents the present value of the indemnification on the credit risk of the reinsurers. At December 31, 2006, Aon no longer reports reinsurance recoverables related to its property and casualty business, which was not part of the sale of AWG. Aon has provided a corporate guaranty with respect to these reinsurance recoverables which amount to $790 million at December 31, 2006. 62 Premium Financing Certain of our U.S., U.K., Canadian, and Australian subsidiaries originate short term loans (generally with terms of 12 months or less) to businesses to finance their insurance premium obligations, and then sell these premium finance agreements in securitization transactions that meet the criteria for sale accounting under Statement No. 140. These sales involve: special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which are considered qualified special purpose entities ("QSPEs") by Statement No. 140 and per Statement No. 140 should not be consolidated in the financial statements of a transferor or its affiliates (Aons subsidiaries). multi seller, non qualified bank commercial paper conduit SPEs ("Bank SPEs"), which are variable interest entities according to FIN 46. We have analyzed qualitative and quantitative factors related to our subsidiaries interests in the Bank SPEs and have determined that these subsidiaries are not the sponsors of the Bank SPEs. Additionally, independent third parties: have made substantial equity investments in the Bank SPEs have voting control of the Bank SPEs generally have the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets of the Bank SPEs. Thus, we have concluded that non consolidation of the Bank SPEs is appropriate in accordance with FIN 46, given that our subsidiaries do not have significant variable interests. Through the securitization agreements, we, or one of our QSPEs, sell undivided interests in specified premium finance agreements to the Bank SPEs. The total amount advanced on premium finance agreements sold to the Bank SPEs at any one time is limited by the securitization agreements to $1.8 billion. The Bank SPEs had advanced $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We can receive additional advances as: we sell more eligible premium finance agreements to the Bank SPEs collections, which we administer, on previously sold agreements reduce available advances. We record gains associated with the sale of receivables. When we calculate the gain, we include all fees we incurred for this facility. The gains, which are included in commissions and fees revenue in the consolidated statements of income, were $63 million, $65 million, and $81 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We record at fair value our retained interest in the sold premium finance agreements, and report it in insurance brokerage and consulting services receivables in the consolidated statements of financial position. We also: retain servicing rights for sold agreements earn servicing fee income over the servicing period, and include these servicing fees in the gain/loss calculation. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, since the fair value of the servicing rights approximates the estimated costs to service the receivables, we have not recorded any servicing assets or liabilities. We estimate fair value by discounting estimated future cash flows from the servicing rights and servicing costs using: discount rates that approximate current market rates expected future prepayment rates. 63 The Bank SPEs bear the credit risks on the receivables, subject to limited recourse in the form of credit loss reserves, which we formerly guaranteed. During 2005, we eliminated the percentage guarantee for all facilities, replacing it with other collateral enhancements. All but the Australian facility require Aon to maintain consolidated net worth, as defined, of at least $2.5 billion, and: consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to consolidated net interest of at least 4 to 1 consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA of no more than 3 to 1. We intend to renew these conduit facilities when they expire. If there were adverse bank, regulatory, tax, or accounting rule changes, our access to the conduit facilities and special purpose vehicles would be restricted. These special purpose vehicles are not included in our consolidated financial statements, following the appropriate accounting standards. PEPS I In 2001, we sold the vast majority of our LP portfolio, valued at $450 million, to PEPS I, a QSPE. The common stock interest in PEPS I is held by a limited liability company owned by one of our subsidiaries (49%) and by a charitable trust, which we do not control, established for victims of the September 11th attacks (51%). PEPS I: sold approximately $171 million of investment grade fixed maturity securities to unaffiliated third parties paid our insurance underwriting subsidiaries the $171 million in cash and issued them an additional $279 million in fixed maturity and preferred stock securities. Standard & Poors Ratings Services rated the fixed maturity securities our subsidiaries received from PEPS I as investment grade. As part of this transaction, the insurance companies had been required to purchase additional fixed maturity securities from PEPS I in an amount equal to the unfunded LP commitments as they are requested. These fixed maturity securities are rated below investment grade. Beginning in July 2004, Aon Parent assumed this responsibility. As of December 31, 2006, the unfunded commitments amounted to $46 million. These commitments have specific expiration dates, and the general partners may decide not to draw on these commitments. After closing the securitization, one of our insurance subsidiaries sold PEPS I fixed maturity securities with a value of $20 million to Aon. In second quarter 2004, CICA paid dividends to Aon Parent of $12 million in fixed maturities securities. We have not included the assets and liabilities and operations of PEPS I in our consolidated financial statements. In previous years, Aon has recognized other than temporary impairment writedowns of $59 million, equal to the original cost of one tranche. The preferred stock interest represents a beneficial interest in securitized limited partnership investments. The fair value of the private preferred stock interests depends on the value of the limited partnership investments held by PEPS I. We assess other than temporary declines in the fair value below cost using a financial model that considers the: value of the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I nature and timing of the cash flows from the underlying limited partnership investments of PEPS I. 64  Contractual Obligations The following table: summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2006, and the future periods during which we expect to settle these obligations in cash reflects the timing of principal payments on outstanding borrowings. We have provided additional details about certain of these obligations in our notes to the financial statements: Payments due in (millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and beyond Total Notes payable and short term borrowings $ 696 $ 3 $ 325 $ 1,260 $ 2,284 Interest expense on notes payable 107 205 193 919 1,424 Operating leases 336 524 367 636 1,863 Pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations (4) 247 551 330 1,241 2,369 Purchase obligations (1) (2) 315 544 365 388 1,612 Insurance premiums payable 9,701 2 1 9,704 Future policy benefits 96 122 157 1,409 1,784 Policy and contract claims 457 118 44 37 656 NYAG and other regulatory authorities settlement (3) 38 38 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet under GAAP 3 4 2 5 14 Total $ 11,996 $ 2,073 $ 1,783 $ 5,896 $ 21,748 (1)Included in purchase obligations are contracts for information technology outsourcing. As of December 31, 2006, we can exit these obligations for termination payments of $94 million. However, given the nature of these contracts, we have included them in our contractual obligations table. (2)Also included in purchase obligations is a $434 million contract for claims outsourcing in the U.K. We can exit this obligation after 2013 for approximately $39 million. (3)The $38 million net present value of this liability has been included in the December 31, 2006 balance sheet in other liabilities. (4)Pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations include estimates of our minimum funding requirements, pursuant to ERISA and other regulations and agreements with the Trustees of our U.K. Pension Plans. Nonqualified pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are based on estimated future benefit payments. We may make additional discretionary contributions.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows, and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. To manage the risk from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading purposes. 65 The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. See Notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our primary exposures are to the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We use over the counter (OTC) options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the translation of our foreign operations financial statements. Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiary earns approximately 31% of its revenue in U.S. dollars, but most of its expenses are incurred in pounds sterling. Our policy is to convert into pounds sterling sufficient U.S. dollar revenue to fund the subsidiarys pound sterling expenses using OTC options and forward exchange contracts. At December 31, 2006, we have hedged 69% and 59% of our U.K. subsidiaries expected U.S. dollar transaction exposure for the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We do not generally hedge exposures beyond three years. The potential loss in future earnings from market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end exchange rates would not be material in 2007 and 2008. Our businesses income is affected by changes in international and domestic short term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short term interest rates and as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. A hypothetical, instantaneous parallel decrease in the period end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $31 million to both 2007 and 2008 pretax income. The valuation of our fixed maturity investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% (100 basis point) increase in long term interest rates would decrease the fair value of the portfolio at December 31, 2006, and 2005 by approximately $122 million and $114 million, respectively. We have notes payable outstanding with a fair market value of $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. This fair value was greater than the carrying value by $315 million and $337 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value by approximately 5% for both December 31, 2006 and 2005. The valuation of our marketable equity security portfolio is subject to equity price risk. If market prices were to decrease by 10%, the fair value of the equity portfolio would have a corresponding decrease of $6 million and $4 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no outstanding derivatives hedging the price risk on the equity portfolio. PEPS I At December 31, 2006, a 10% or 20% decrease in the underlying equity of the limited partnerships would have decreased the value of the preferred stock securities by $20 million and $41 million, respectively. We have selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity market prices to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. We believe these changes in rates and prices are reasonably possible within a one year period. 66   
 
