Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is comprised of the following sections: PageNo. Overview Consolidated Financial Results 46 Parent Company Structure 47 Critical Accounting Estimates 47 Results of Operations by Business Segment 50 CNA Financial 50 Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties 50 Agreement to Cede Asbestos and Environmental Pollution Liabilities 55 CNA Specialty 58 CNA Commercial 60 Life & Group Non Core 62 Other Insurance 63 Diamond Offshore 64 HighMount 70 Boardwalk Pipeline 73 Loews Hotels 76 Corporate and Other 77 Liquidity and Capital Resources 78 CNA Financial 78 Diamond Offshore 80 HighMount 81 Boardwalk Pipeline 81 Loews Hotels 81 Corporate and Other 82 Contractual Obligations 82 Investments 83 Accounting Standards Update 89 Forward Looking Statements 89 45 Table of Contents OVERVIEW We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation (CNA), a 90% owned subsidiary); operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (Diamond Offshore), a 50.4% owned subsidiary); exploration, production and marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids and, to a lesser extent, oil (HighMount Exploration & Production LLC (HighMount), a wholly owned subsidiary); operation of interstate natural gas transmission pipeline systems (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (Boardwalk Pipeline), a 66% owned subsidiary); and operation of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (Loews Hotels), a wholly owned subsidiary). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to the Company, we, our, us or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.3 billion, or $3.07 per share, compared to net income of $564 million, or $1.30 per share, in 2009. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $466 million, or $1.12 per share, compared to net income of $403 million, or $0.94 per share, in the 2009 fourth quarter. Net income and earnings per share information attributable to Loews Corporation is summarized in the table below. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 (In millions, except per share data) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation: Income from continuing operations (a) (b) $ 1,307 $ 566 Discontinued operations, net (a) (19 ) (2 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 1,288 $ 564 Net income per share: Income from continuing operations $ 3.11 $ 1.31 Discontinued operations, net (0.04 ) (0.01 ) Net income per share $ 3.07 $ 1.30 (a) Includes losses of $309 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in continuing operations and $19 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 related to CNAs Loss Portfolio Transfer transaction as discussed elsewhere in this MD&A. (b) Includes a non cash impairment charge of $660 million (after tax) for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to the carrying value of HighMounts natural gas and oil properties. Income from continuing operations in 2010 amounted to $1.3 billion as compared to $566 million in 2009. The results in 2010 included a charge of $309 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) related to the Loss Portfolio Transfer agreement under which CNA ceded legacy asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities to National Indemnity Company (NICO). 46 Table of Contents Results for 2009 included a non cash impairment charge of $660 million (after tax) related to the carrying value of HighMounts natural gas and oil properties. This charge reflected declines in commodity prices. Results in 2010 also benefitted from significantly lower OTTI losses and increased favorable net prior year development at CNA. These improvements were partially offset by reduced results at Diamond Offshore reflecting reduced utilization and the continued impact of the drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico. Net investment gains amounted to $27 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in 2010 compared to net investment losses of $503 million in 2009. Net investment gains in 2010 were driven by improvements in capital markets and reflected OTTI losses at CNA of $136 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests). Net investment losses in 2009 reflected OTTI losses at CNA of $791 million, which were driven by reduced valuations for residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as credit issues in the financial sector partially offset by a $217 million realized investment gain from the sale of CNAs common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. Book value per common share increased to $44.51 at December 31, 2010 as compared to $39.76 at December 31, 2009. Parent Company Structure We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. We rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to our shareholders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of CNA, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies (see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8) and compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our Consolidated Financial Statements as their application places the most significant demands on our judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual results could differ significantly from estimates and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and or equity. Insurance Reserves Insurance reserves are established for both short and long duration insurance contracts. Short duration contracts are primarily related to property and casualty insurance policies where the reserving process is based on actuarial estimates of the amount of loss, including amounts for known and unknown claims. Long duration contracts typically include traditional life insurance, payout annuities and long term care products and are estimated using actuarial estimates about mortality, morbidity and persistency as well as assumptions about expected investment returns. The reserve for unearned premiums on property and casualty and accident and health contracts represents the portion of premiums written related to the unexpired terms of coverage. The inherent risks associated with the reserving process are discussed in the Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties section below. 47 Table of Contents Reinsurance and Other Receivables An exposure exists with respect to the collectibility of property and casualty and life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities CNA has ceded under reinsurance agreements. An allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance receivables is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency, CNAs past experience and current economic conditions. Further information on CNAs reinsurance receivables are included in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Additionally, an exposure exists with respect to amounts due from customers on other receivables. An allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due currently or in the future, managements experience and current economic conditions. If actual experience differs from the estimates made by management in determining the allowances for doubtful accounts on reinsurance and other receivables, net receivables as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets may not be collected. Therefore, our results of operations and or equity could be materially adversely impacted. Litigation We and our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings that have arisen during the ordinary course of business. We evaluate the facts and circumstances of each situation, and when management determines it necessary, a liability is estimated and recorded. Please read Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Valuation of Investments and Impairment of Securities The Company classifies its fixed maturity securities and equity securities as either available for sale or trading which are both carried at fair value. The determination of fair value requires management to make a significant number of assumptions and judgments, particularly with respect to asset backed securities. Due to the level of uncertainty related to changes in the fair value of these assets, it is possible that changes in the near term could have an adverse material impact on our results of operations and or equity. CNAs investment portfolio is subject to market declines below amortized cost that may be other than temporary and therefore result in the recognition of impairment losses in earnings. Factors considered in the determination of whether or not a decline is other than temporary include a current intention to sell the security or an indication that a credit loss exists. Significant judgment exists regarding the evaluation of the financial condition and expected near term and long term prospects of the issuer, the relevant industry conditions and trends, and whether CNA expects to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. CNA has an Impairment Committee which reviews the investment portfolio on at least a quarterly basis, with ongoing analysis as new information becomes available. Further information on CNAs process for evaluating impairments is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Long Term Care Products and Payout Annuity Contracts Reserves for CNAs long term care products and payout annuity contracts and deferred acquisition costs for CNAs long term care products are based on certain assumptions including morbidity, mortality, policy persistency and interest rates. The recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and the adequacy of the reserves are contingent on actual experience related to these key assumptions, which were generally established at time of issue, and other factors such as future health care cost trends. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition costs may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring CNA to add to reserves, or take unfavorable development. Therefore, our results of operations and or equity could be adversely impacted. 48 Table of Contents Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We are required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the rate of compensation increases. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The yield curve was applied to expected future retirement plan payments to adjust the discount rate to reflect the cash flow characteristics of the plans. The yield curves and indices evaluated in the selection of the discount rate are comprised of high quality corporate bonds that are rated AA by an accepted rating agency. Further information on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations is included in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Valuation of HighMounts Proved Reserves HighMount follows the full cost method of accounting for natural gas and oil exploration and production activities. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depleted using the units of production method. The depletable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs) reserves, as well as capitalized asset retirement costs, net of projected salvage values. Capitalized costs in the depletable base are subject to a ceiling test. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling, the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved natural gas and NGL reserves, using calculated average prices adjusted for any cash flow hedges in place. If net capitalized costs exceed the ceiling test at the end of any quarterly period, then a write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. A write down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and NGL prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. At March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, total capitalized costs exceeded the ceiling and HighMount recognized non cash impairment charges of $1,036 million ($660 million after tax) and $691 million ($440 million after tax), related to the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties, as discussed further in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. In addition, gains or losses on the sale or other disposition of natural gas and NGL properties are not recognized unless the gain or loss would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. HighMounts estimate of proved reserves requires a high degree of judgment and is dependent on factors such as historical data, engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities, estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves, and estimates of future production from the proved reserves. HighMounts estimated proved reserves are based upon studies for each of HighMounts properties prepared by HighMount staff engineers. Calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines. Determination of proved reserves is based on, among other things, (i) a pricing mechanism for oil and gas reserves which uses an average 12 month price; (ii) a limitation on the classification of reserves as proved undeveloped to locations scheduled to be drilled within five years; and (iii) a 10.0% discount factor used in calculating discounted future net cash flows. HighMounts December 31, 2010 ceiling test calculation was based on average 2010 prices of $4.38 per MMBtu for natural gas, $43.75 per Bbl for NGLs and $79.43 per Bbl for oil. Using these prices, total capitalized cost did not exceed the ceiling. Holding all factors constant, if the December 31, 2010 average prices were to decline by more than 15.0%, it is possible HighMount could experience a full cost ceiling test impairment. Ryder Scott Company, L.P., an independent third party petroleum engineering consulting firm, has audited HighMounts reserve estimates in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Given the volatility of natural gas and 49 Table of Contents NGL prices, it is possible that HighMounts estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and NGL reserves that is used to calculate the ceiling could materially change in the near term. The process to estimate reserves is imprecise, and estimates are subject to revision. If there is a significant variance in any of HighMounts estimates or assumptions in the future and revisions to the value of HighMounts proved reserves are necessary, related depletion expense and the calculation of the ceiling test would be affected and recognition of natural gas and NGL property impairments could occur. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company uses a probability weighted cash flow analysis to test property and equipment for impairment based on relevant market data. If an asset is determined to be impaired, a loss is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the fair value of the asset. Managements cash flow assumptions are an inherent part of our asset impairment evaluation and the use of different assumptions could produce results that differ from the reported amounts. Goodwill Management must apply judgment in determining the estimated fair value of its reporting units goodwill for purposes of performing impairment tests. Management uses all available information to make these fair value determinations, including the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates commensurate with the risks involved in the assets and observed market multiples. Goodwill is required to be evaluated on an annual basis and whenever, in managements judgment, there is a significant change in circumstances that would be considered a triggering event. Income Taxes We account for taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the financial statement and tax return bases of assets and liabilities. Any resulting future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not, and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes may not be realized. The assessment of the need for a valuation allowance requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future earnings, reversal of existing temporary differences and available tax planning strategies. If actual experience differs from these estimates and assumptions, the recorded deferred tax asset may not be fully realized resulting in an increase to income tax expense in our results of operations. In addition, the ability to record deferred tax assets in the future could be limited resulting in a higher effective tax rate in that future period. The Company has not established deferred tax liabilities for certain of its foreign earnings as it intends to indefinitely reinvest those earnings to finance foreign activities. However, if these earnings become subject to U.S. federal tax, any required provision could have a material impact on our financial results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT CNA Financial Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties CNA maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for claims that have been reported but not yet settled (case reserves) and claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are reflected as liabilities and are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets under the heading Insurance Reserves. Adjustments to prior year reserve estimates, if necessary, are reflected in results of operations in the period that the need for such adjustments is determined. The carried case and IBNR reserves as of each balance sheet date are provided in the Segment Results section of this MD&A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 50 Table of Contents The level of reserves CNA maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on CNAs assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. Reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that CNA derives, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. CNA is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. These issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on CNAs business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: the effects of recessionary economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of claims, due to corporate failures; these claims include both directors and officers (D&O) and errors and omissions (E&O) insurance claims; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. The impact of these and other unforeseen emerging or potential claims and coverage issues is difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect the adequacy of CNAs claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and could lead to future reserve additions. CNAs property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have actual and potential exposures related to asbestos and environmental pollution (A&EP) claims. CNAs experience has been that establishing reserves for casualty coverages relating to A&EP claims and claim adjustment expenses are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. Additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment reserves for A&EP. As a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported A&EP claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. To mitigate the risks posed by CNAs exposure to A&EP claims and claim adjustment expenses, as further discussed in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, on August 31, 2010 CNA completed a transaction with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., under which substantially all of CNAs legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to NICO effective January 1, 2010. Establishing Reserve Estimates In developing claim and claim adjustment expense (loss or losses) reserve estimates, CNAs actuaries perform detailed reserve analyses that are staggered throughout the year. The data is organized at a product level. A product can be a line of business covering a subset of insureds such as commercial automobile liability for small or middle market customers, it can encompass several lines of business provided to a specific set of customers such as dentists, or it can be a particular type of claim such as construction defect. Every product is analyzed at least once during the year, with the exception of certain run off products which are analyzed on a periodic basis. The analyses generally review losses gross of ceded reinsurance and apply the ceded reinsurance terms to the gross estimates to establish estimates net of reinsurance. In addition to the detailed analyses, CNA reviews actual loss emergence for all products each quarter. The detailed analyses use a variety of generally accepted actuarial methods and techniques to produce a number of estimates of ultimate loss. CNAs actuaries determine a point estimate of ultimate loss by reviewing the various estimates and assigning weight to each estimate given the characteristics of the product being reviewed. The reserve estimate is the difference between the estimated ultimate loss and the losses paid to date. The difference between the estimated ultimate loss and the case incurred loss (paid loss plus case reserve) is IBNR. IBNR calculated as such includes a provision for development on known cases (supplemental development) as well as a provision for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported (pure IBNR). 51 Table of Contents Most of CNAs business can be characterized as long tail. For long tail business, it will generally be several years between the time the business is written and the time when all claims are settled. CNAs long tail exposures include commercial automobile liability, workers compensation, general liability, medical, professional liability, other professional liability coverages, assumed reinsurance run off and products liability. Short tail exposures include property, commercial automobile physical damage, marine and warranty. CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial contain both long tail and short tail exposures. Other Insurance contains long tail exposures. Various methods are used to project ultimate loss for both long tail and short tail exposures including, but not limited to, the following: paid development; incurred development; loss ratio; Bornhuetter Ferguson using paid loss; Bornhuetter Ferguson using incurred loss; frequency times severity; and stochastic modeling. The paid development method estimates ultimate losses by reviewing paid loss patterns and applying them to accident years with further expected changes in paid loss. Selection of the paid loss pattern requires consideration of several factors including the impact of inflation on claims costs, the rate at which claims professionals make claim payments and close claims, the impact of judicial decisions, the impact of underwriting changes, the impact of large claim payments and other factors. Claim cost inflation itself requires evaluation of changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, changes in the cost of medical care, changes in the cost of wage replacement, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Because this method assumes that losses are paid at a consistent rate, changes in any of these factors can impact the results. Since the method does not rely on case reserves, it is not directly influenced by changes in the adequacy of case reserves. For many products, paid loss data for recent periods may be too immature or erratic for accurate predictions. This situation often exists for long tail exposures. In addition, changes in the factors described above may result in inconsistent payment patterns. Finally, estimating the paid loss pattern subsequent to the most mature point available in the data analyzed often involves considerable uncertainty for long tail products such as workers compensation. The incurred development method is similar to the paid development method, but it uses case incurred losses instead of paid losses. Since the method uses more data (case reserves in addition to paid losses) than the paid development method, the incurred development patterns may be less variable than paid patterns. However, selection of the incurred loss pattern requires analysis of all of the factors above. In addition, the inclusion of case reserves can lead to distortions if changes in case reserving practices have taken place, and the use of case incurred losses may not eliminate the issues associated with estimating the incurred loss pattern subsequent to the most mature point available. The loss ratio method multiplies premiums by an expected loss ratio to produce ultimate loss estimates for each accident year. This method may be useful for immature accident periods or if loss development patterns are inconsistent, losses emerge very slowly, or there is relatively little loss history from which to estimate future losses. The selection of the expected loss ratio requires analysis of loss ratios from earlier accident years or pricing studies and analysis of inflationary trends, frequency trends, rate changes, underwriting changes, and other applicable factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method using paid loss is a combination of the paid development method and the loss ratio method. This method normally determines expected loss ratios similar to the approach used to estimate the expected loss ratio for the loss ratio method and requires analysis of the same factors described above. This method assumes that only 52 Table of Contents future losses will develop at the expected loss ratio level. The percent of paid loss to ultimate loss implied from the paid development method is used to determine what percentage of ultimate loss is yet to be paid. The use of the pattern from the paid development method requires consideration of all factors listed in the description of the paid development method. The estimate of losses yet to be paid is added to current paid losses to estimate the ultimate loss for each year. This method will react very slowly if actual ultimate loss ratios are different from expectations due to changes not accounted for by the expected loss ratio calculation. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method using incurred loss is similar to the Bornhuetter Ferguson method using paid loss except that it uses case incurred losses. The use of case incurred losses instead of paid losses can result in development patterns that are less variable than paid patterns. However, the inclusion of case reserves can lead to distortions if changes in case reserving have taken place, and the method requires analysis of all the factors that need to be reviewed for the loss ratio and incurred development methods. The frequency times severity method multiplies a projected number of ultimate claims by an estimated ultimate average loss for each accident year to produce ultimate loss estimates. Since projections of the ultimate number of claims are often less variable than projections of ultimate loss, this method can provide more reliable results for products where loss development patterns are inconsistent or too variable to be relied on exclusively. In addition, this method can more directly account for changes in coverage that impact the number and size of claims. However, this method can be difficult to apply to situations where very large claims or a substantial number of unusual claims result in volatile average claim sizes. Projecting the ultimate number of claims requires analysis of several factors including the rate at which policyholders report claims to CNA, the impact of judicial decisions, the impact of underwriting changes and other factors. Estimating the ultimate average loss requires analysis of the impact of large losses and claim cost trends based on changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, changes in the cost of medical care, changes in the cost of wage replacement, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Stochastic modeling produces a range of possible outcomes based on varying assumptions related to the particular product being modeled. For some products, CNA uses models which rely on historical development patterns at an aggregate level, while other products are modeled using individual claim variability assumptions supplied by the claims department. In either case, multiple simulations are run and the results are analyzed to produce a range of potential outcomes. The results will typically include a mean and percentiles of the possible reserve distribution which aid in the selection of a point estimate. For many exposures, especially those that can be considered long tail, a particular accident year may not have a sufficient volume of paid losses to produce a statistically reliable estimate of ultimate losses. In such a case, CNAs actuaries typically assign more weight to the incurred development method than to the paid development method. As claims continue to settle and the volume of paid loss increases, the actuaries may assign additional weight to the paid development method. For most of CNAs products, even the incurred losses for accident years that are early in the claim settlement process will not be of sufficient volume to produce a reliable estimate of ultimate losses. In these cases, CNA will not assign any weight to the paid and incurred development methods. CNA will use loss ratio, Bornhuetter Ferguson and frequency times severity methods. For short tail exposures, the paid and incurred development methods can often be relied on sooner primarily because CNAs history includes a sufficient number of years to cover the entire period over which paid and incurred losses are expected to change. However, CNA may also use the loss ratio, Bornhuetter Ferguson and frequency times severity methods for short tail exposures. For other more complex products where the above methods may not produce reliable indications, CNA uses additional methods tailored to the characteristics of the specific situation. Periodic Reserve Reviews The reserve analyses performed by CNAs actuaries result in point estimates. Each quarter, the results of the detailed reserve reviews are summarized and discussed with CNAs senior management to determine the best estimate of reserves. This group considers many factors in making this decision. The factors include, but are not limited to, the historical pattern and volatility of the actuarial indications, the sensitivity of the actuarial indications to changes in paid and incurred loss patterns, the consistency of claims handling processes, the consistency of case reserving practices, changes in CNAs pricing and underwriting, pricing and underwriting trends in the insurance market, and legal, judicial, social and economic trends. 53 Table of Contents CNAs recorded reserves reflect its best estimate as of a particular point in time based upon known facts, consideration of the factors cited above, and its judgment. The carried reserve may differ from the actuarial point estimate as the result of CNAs consideration of the factors noted above as well as the potential volatility of the projections associated with the specific product being analyzed and other factors impacting claims costs that may not be quantifiable through traditional actuarial analysis. This process results in managements best estimate which is then recorded as the loss reserve. Currently, CNAs recorded reserves are modestly higher than the actuarial point estimate. For both CNA Commercial and CNA Specialty, the difference between CNAs reserves and the actuarial point estimate is primarily driven by uncertainty with respect to immature accident years, claim cost inflation, changes in claims handling, tort reform roll backs which may adversely impact claim costs, and the effects from the economy. For Other Insurance, the difference between CNAs reserves and the actuarial point estimate is primarily driven by the potential tail volatility of run off exposures. The key assumptions fundamental to the reserving process are often different for various products and accident years. Some of these assumptions are explicit assumptions that are required of a particular method, but most of the assumptions are implicit and cannot be precisely quantified. An example of an explicit assumption is the pattern employed in the paid development method. However, the assumed pattern is itself based on several implicit assumptions such as the impact of inflation on medical costs and the rate at which claim professionals close claims. As a result, the effect on reserve estimates of a particular change in assumptions usually cannot be specifically quantified, and changes in these assumptions cannot be tracked over time. CNAs recorded reserves are managements best estimate. In order to provide an indication of the variability associated with CNAs net reserves, the following discussion provides a sensitivity analysis that shows the approximate estimated impact of variations in significant factors affecting CNAs reserve estimates for particular types of business. These significant factors are the ones that CNA believes could most likely materially impact the reserves. This discussion covers the major types of business for which CNA believes a material deviation to its reserves is reasonably possible. There can be no assurance that actual experience will be consistent with the current assumptions or with the variation indicated by the discussion. In addition, there can be no assurance that other factors and assumptions will not have a material impact on CNAs reserves. Within CNA Specialty, CNA believes a material deviation to its net reserves is reasonably possible for professional liability and related business. This business includes professional liability coverages provided to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, small and mid sized accounting firms, law firms and technology firms. This business also includes D&O, employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages as well as insurance products serving the healthcare delivery system. The most significant factor affecting reserve estimates for this business is claim severity. Claim severity is driven by the cost of medical care, the cost of wage replacement, legal fees, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Underwriting and claim handling decisions such as the classes of business written and individual claim settlement decisions can also impact claim severity. If the estimated claim severity increases by 9.0%, CNA estimates that the net reserves would increase by approximately $450 million. If the estimated claim severity decreases by 3.0%, CNA estimates that net reserves would decrease by approximately $150 million. CNAs net reserves for this business were approximately $5.0 billion at December 31, 2010. Within CNA Commercial, the two types of business for which CNA believes a material deviation to its net reserves is reasonably possible are workers compensation and general liability. For CNA Commercial workers compensation, since many years will pass from the time the business is written until all claim payments have been made, claim cost inflation on claim payments is the most significant factor affecting workers compensation reserve estimates. Workers compensation claim cost inflation is driven by the cost of medical care, the cost of wage replacement, expected claimant lifetimes, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. If estimated workers compensation claim cost inflation increases by 100 basis points for the entire period over which claim payments will be made, CNA estimates that its net reserves would increase by approximately $450 million. If estimated workers compensation claim cost inflation decreases by 100 basis points for the entire period over which claim payments will be made, CNA estimates that its net reserves would decrease by approximately $450 million. CNAs net reserves for CNA Commercial workers compensation were approximately $5.0 billion at December 31, 2010. 54 Table of Contents For CNA Commercial general liability, the most significant factor affecting reserve estimates is claim severity. Claim severity is driven by changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, the cost of medical care, the cost of wage replacement, judicial decisions, legislation and other factors. If the estimated claim severity for general liability increases by 6.0%, CNA estimates that its net reserves would increase by approximately $200 million. If the estimated claim severity for general liability decreases by 3.0%, CNA estimates that its net reserves would decrease by approximately $100 million. Net reserves for CNA Commercial general liability were approximately $3.3 billion at December 31, 2010. Given the factors described above, it is not possible to quantify precisely the ultimate exposure represented by claims and related litigation. As a result, CNA regularly reviews the adequacy of its reserves and reassesses its reserve estimates as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and additional information becomes available in subsequent periods. In light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, CNA reviews its reserve estimates on a regular basis and makes adjustments in the period that the need for such adjustments is determined. These reviews have resulted in CNAs identification of information and trends that have caused CNA to change its reserves in prior periods and could lead to the identification of a need for additional material increases or decreases in claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, which could materially affect our results of operations and equity and CNAs business, insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings positively or negatively. See the Ratings section of this MD&A for further information regarding CNAs financial strength and corporate debt ratings. Agreement to Cede Asbestos and Environmental Pollution (A&EP) Liabilities to NICO As further discussed in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, on August 31, 2010, CNA completed a transaction with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., under which substantially all of CNAs legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to NICO (Loss Portfolio Transfer), subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion. We recognized a net loss of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in the third quarter of 2010, of which $309 million related to our continuing operations. Since a portion of the liabilities ceded related to discontinued operations, we also recognized a net loss for discontinued operations of $19 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests). The net loss of $328 million related primarily to the risk margin necessary to secure the $4.0 billion of reinsurance protection on such a volatile component of CNAs reserves. However, CNA believes the benefits to it are compelling. The benefits include: improves CNAs earnings outlook and financial stability by significantly mitigating A&EP reserve risk going forward; effectively eliminates credit risk on $1.2 billion of third party A&EP reinsurance recoverables effective January 1, 2010; and eliminates an area of uncertainty from the perspective of rating agencies. 55 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Insurance premiums $ 6,515 $ 6,721 $ 7,151 Net investment income 2,316 2,320 1,619 Investment gains (losses) 86 (857 ) (1,297) Other 291 288 326 Total 9,208 8,472 7,799 Expenses: Insurance claims and policyholders benefits 4,985 5,290 5,723 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,387 1,417 1,467 Other operating expenses 1,558 1,086 1,025 Interest 157 128 134 Total 8,087 7,921 8,349 Income (loss) before income tax 1,121 551 (550) Income tax (expense) benefit (336 ) (61 ) 306 Income (loss) from continuing operations 785 490 (244) Discontinued operations, net (20 ) (2 ) 10 Net income (loss) 765 488 (234) Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (129 ) (91 ) (25) Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 636 $ 397 $ (259) 2010 Compared with 2009 Net income increased $239 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was driven by significantly improved net investment results of $943 million ($551 million after tax and noncontrolling interests), partially offset by the loss associated with the Loss Portfolio Transfer. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net realized investment results and net investment income. Favorable net prior year development of $594 million and $208 million was recorded for 2010 and 2009. Further information on net prior year development for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Net earned premiums decreased $206 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by a $176 million decrease in CNA Commercial and an $18 million decrease in CNA Specialty. See the CNA Segment Results section of this MD&A for further discussion. Net loss from discontinued operations increased $18 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, due to the loss associated with the Loss Portfolio Transfer. In 2010, CNA commenced a program to significantly transform its Information Technology (IT) organization and delivery model. CNA anticipates that the total costs for this program will be approximately $38 million, of which $36 million was incurred through December 31, 2010. When the results of this program are fully operational, CNA anticipates significant annual savings relative to its current annual level of IT spending. A significant portion of the annual savings is anticipated to be achieved in 2011 with full annual savings in 2012. Some or all of these estimated savings may be invested in IT or other enhancements necessary to support CNAs business strategies. 2009 Compared with 2008 Net results increased $656 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. This increase was driven by improved net investment income of $701 million, mainly due to limited partnership income, and improved net investment results of $440 million. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net realized investment results and net investment income. Favorable net prior year development of $208 million and $80 million was recorded for 2009 and 2008. In 2008, the amount due from policyholders related to losses under deductible policies within CNA Commercial 56 Table of Contents Lines was reduced by $90 million for insolvent insureds. This reduction was reflected as unfavorable net prior year reserve development in 2008, and had no effect on 2008 results of operations as CNA had recognized provisions in prior years. Further information on net prior year development for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Net earned premiums decreased $430 million in 2009 as compared with 2008, driven by a $355 million decrease in CNA Commercial and a $58 million decrease related to CNA Specialty. See the CNA Segment Results section of this MD&A for further discussion. Segment Results CNA revised its reporting segments in the fourth quarter of 2010 for certain mass tort claims to reflect the manner in which it is currently organized for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing performance, as further discussed in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. CNAs core property and casualty commercial insurance operations are reported in two business segments: CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial. CNA Specialty provides a broad array of professional, financial and specialty property and casualty products and services, primarily through insurance brokers and managing general underwriters. CNA Commercial includes property and casualty coverages sold to small businesses and middle market entities and organizations primarily through an independent agency distribution system. CNA Commercial also includes commercial insurance and risk management products sold to large corporations primarily through insurance brokers. CNAs non core operations are managed in two segments: Life & Group Non Core and Other Insurance. Life & Group Non Core primarily includes the results of the life and group lines of business that are in run off. Other Insurance primarily includes certain corporate expenses, including interest on corporate debt, and the results of certain property and casualty business primarily in run off, including CNA Re and A&EP. Intrasegment eliminations are also included in this segment. CNA utilizes the net operating income financial measure to monitor its operations. Net operating income is calculated by excluding from net income the after tax effects of (i) net realized investment gains or losses, (ii) income or loss from discontinued operations and (iii) any cumulative effects of changes in accounting guidance. In evaluating the results of the CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial segments, CNA utilizes the loss ratio, the expense ratio, the dividend ratio, and the combined ratio. These ratios are calculated using GAAP financial results. The loss ratio is the percentage of net incurred claim and claim adjustment expenses to net earned premiums. The expense ratio is the percentage of insurance underwriting and acquisition expenses, including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, to net earned premiums. The dividend ratio is the ratio of policyholders dividends incurred to net earned premiums. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss, expense and dividend ratios. Changes in estimates of claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserves and premium accruals, net of reinsurance, for prior years are defined as net prior year development within this MD&A. These changes can be favorable or unfavorable. Net prior year development does not include the impact of related acquisition expenses. Further information on CNAs reserves is provided in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 57 Table of Contents The following discusses the results of continuing operations for CNAs operating segments. CNA Specialty The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA Specialty: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except %) Net written premiums $ 2,691 $ 2,684 $ 2,719 Net earned premiums 2,679 2,697 2,755 Net investment income 591 526 354 Net operating income 563 532 372 Net realized investment gains (losses) 18 (110 ) (150) Net income 581 422 222 Ratios: Loss and loss adjustment expense 54.0 % 56.9 % 61.7% Expense 30.5 29.3 27.3 Dividend 0.5 0.3 0.5 Combined 85.0 % 86.5 % 89.5% 2010 Compared with 2009 Net written premiums for CNA Specialty increased $7 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Net written premiums increased in CNAs professional management and liability lines of business. This increase was partially offset by continued decreased insured exposures and lower rates in CNAs architects & engineers and CNA HealthPro lines of business due to current economic and competitive market conditions. These conditions may continue to put ongoing pressure on premium and income levels and the expense ratio. Net earned premiums decreased $18 million as compared with the same period in 2009, due to the impact of decreased net written premiums in prior quarters. CNA Specialtys average rate decreased 2.0% for 2010 and 2009 for policies that renewed in each period. Retention rates of 86.0% and 84.0% were achieved for those policies that were available for renewal in each period. Net income improved $159 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This increase was due to improved net realized investment results and improved net operating income. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net investment income and net realized investment results. Net operating income improved $31 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development and improved net investment income, partially offset by decreased current accident year underwriting results. The combined ratio improved 1.5 points in 2010 as compared with 2009. The loss ratio improved 2.9 points primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by the impact of a higher current accident year loss ratio. The expense ratio increased 1.2 points primarily related to higher underwriting expenses and higher commission rates. Underwriting expenses were unfavorably impacted by higher employee related costs and IT Transformation costs. See the Consolidated Operations section of this MD&A for further discussion of IT Transformation costs. Favorable net prior year development of $344 million was recorded in 2010, compared to $224 million in 2009. Further information on CNA Specialty net prior year development for 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for CNA Specialty: December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 2,341 $ 2,208 Gross IBNR Reserves 4,452 4,714 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 6,793 $ 6,922 Net Case Reserves $ 1,992 $ 1,781 Net IBNR Reserves 3,926 4,085 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 5,918 $ 5,866 2009 Compared with 2008 Net written premiums for CNA Specialty decreased $35 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. The decrease in net written premiums was driven by CNAs architects & engineers and surety bond lines of business, as economic conditions led to decreased insured exposures. Net written premiums were also unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange. Net earned premiums decreased $58 million as compared with the same period in 2008, consistent with the trend of lower net written premiums. CNA Specialtys average rate decreased 2.0% for 2009 as compared to a decrease of 4.0% for 2008 for policies that renewed in each period. Retention rates of 84.0% and 85.0% were achieved for those policies that were available for renewal in each period. Net income improved $200 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. This increase was due to improved net operating income and lower net realized investment losses. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net investment income and net realized investment results. Net operating income improved $160 million in 2009 as compared with 2008, primarily due to higher net investment income and increased favorable net prior year development. The combined ratio improved 3.0 points in 2009 as compared with 2008. The loss ratio improved 4.8 points primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development. The expense ratio increased 2.0 points in 2009 as compared with 2008, primarily due to higher underwriting expenses and the lower net earned premium base. Underwriting expenses increased primarily due to higher employee related costs. Favorable net prior year development of $224 million was recorded in 2009 compared to $106 million in 2008. Further information on CNA Specialty net prior year development for 2009 and 2008 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 59 Table of Contents CNA Commercial The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA Commercial: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except %) Net written premiums $ 3,208 $ 3,448 $ 3,770 Net earned premiums 3,256 3,432 3,787 Net investment income 873 935 612 Net operating income 459 445 263 Net realized investment losses (14 ) (212 ) (306) Net income (loss) 445 233 (43) Ratios: Loss and loss adjustment expense 66.8 % 70.5 % 73.1% Expense 35.7 35.2 31.2 Dividend 0.4 0.3 Combined 102.9 % 106.0 % 104.3% 2010 Compared with 2009 Net written premiums for CNA Commercial decreased $240 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Premiums written were unfavorably impacted by decreased insured exposures and decreased new business as a result of competitive market conditions. Current economic conditions have led to decreased insured exposures, such as in the construction industry due to smaller payrolls and reduced project volume. These conditions may continue to put ongoing pressure on premium and income levels and the expense ratio. Net earned premiums decreased $176 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, consistent with the trend of lower net written premiums. CNA Commercials average rate increased 1.0% for 2010, as compared to flat rates for 2009 for the policies that renewed during those periods. Retention rates of 79.0% and 81.0% were achieved for those policies that were available for renewal in each period. Net income improved $212 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was primarily due to improved net realized investment results. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net investment income and net realized investment results. Net operating income improved $14 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This increase was primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by lower net investment income and higher catastrophe losses. The combined ratio improved 3.1 points in 2010 as compared with 2009. The loss ratio improved 3.7 points, primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by the impact of higher catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses were $113 million, or 3.5 points of the loss ratio, for 2010, as compared to $82 million, or 2.4 points of the loss ratio, for 2009. The expense ratio increased 0.5 points in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the lower net earned premium base. Underwriting expenses include the unfavorable impact of the IT Transformation costs. See the Consolidated Operations section of this MD&A for further discussion of IT Transformation costs. Favorable net prior year development of $256 million was recorded in 2010, compared to favorable net prior year development of $143 million in 2009. Further information on CNA Commercial net prior year development for 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 60 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for CNA Commercial: December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 6,390 $ 6,555 Gross IBNR Reserves 6,132 6,688 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 12,522 $ 13,243 Net Case Reserves $ 5,349 $ 5,306 Net IBNR Reserves 5,292 5,691 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 10,641 $ 10,997 2009 Compared with 2008 Net written premiums for CNA Commercial decreased $322 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. Written premiums declined in most lines primarily due to general economic conditions. Economic conditions led to decreased insured exposures, such as in small businesses and in the construction industry due to smaller payrolls and reduced project volume. Net earned premiums decreased $355 million in 2009 as compared with 2008, consistent with the trend of lower net written premiums. Premiums were also impacted by unfavorable premium development recorded in 2009 and unfavorable foreign exchange. CNA Commercials average rate was flat for 2009, as compared to a decrease of 4.0% for 2008 for the policies that renewed during those periods. Retention rates of 81.0% were achieved for those policies that were available for renewal in each period. Net results improved $276 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. This improvement was due to increased net operating income and decreased net realized investment losses. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net investment income and net realized investment results. Net operating income improved $182 million in 2009 compared with 2008. This improvement was primarily driven by higher net investment income and lower catastrophe losses. Partially offsetting these favorable items was an unfavorable change in current accident year underwriting results excluding catastrophes. The combined ratio increased 1.7 points in 2009 as compared with 2008. The loss ratio improved 2.6 points primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses, partially offset by the impact of higher current accident year non catastrophe loss ratios and decreased favorable net prior year development. Catastrophe losses were $82 million, or 2.4 points of the loss ratio, for 2009 as compared to $343 million, or 9.0 points of the loss ratio, for 2008. The current accident year loss ratio, excluding catastrophe losses, was unfavorably impacted by loss experience in several lines of business, including workers compensation and renewable energy, as well as several significant property losses. The expense ratio increased 4.0 points in 2009 as compared with 2008, primarily related to higher underwriting expenses, unfavorable changes in estimates for insurance related assessments and the lower net earned premium base. Underwriting expenses increased primarily due to higher employee related costs. In 2008, the amount due from policyholders related to losses under deductible policies within CNA Commercial Lines was reduced by $90 million for insolvent insureds. The reduction of this amount, which was reflected as unfavorable net prior year reserve development in 2008, had no effect on 2008 results of operations as CNA had previously recognized provisions in prior years. These impacts were reported in Insurance claims and policyholders benefits in the 2008 Consolidated Statements of Income. Favorable net prior year development of $143 million was recorded in 2009, compared to favorable net prior year development of $97 million in 2008. Excluding the impact of the $90 million of unfavorable net prior year reserve development discussed above, which had no net impact on the 2008 results of operations, favorable net prior year development was $187 million. Further information on CNA Commercial net prior year development for 2009 and 2008 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 61 Table of Contents Life & Group Non Core The following table summarizes the results of operations for Life & Group Non Core: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Net earned premiums $ 582 $ 595 $ 612 Net investment income 715 664 484 Net operating loss (79 ) (14 ) (97) Net realized investment gains (losses) 30 (138 ) (212) Net loss (49 ) (152 ) (309) 2010 Compared with 2009 Net earned premiums for Life & Group Non Core decreased $13 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Net earned premiums relate primarily to the individual and group long term care businesses. Net loss decreased $103 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was primarily due to improved net realized investment results. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net realized investment results. In addition, 2009 results included the unfavorable impact of a $25 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) legal accrual as discussed further below. The accrual was subsequently decreased in 2010, resulting in a favorable impact of $11 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests). Favorable reserve development arising from a commutation of an assumed reinsurance agreement in 2010 also contributed to the improvement. These favorable impacts were partially offset by a $55 million gain (after tax and noncontrolling interests) recognized in 2009, net of reinsurance, arising from a settlement reached with Willis Limited that resolved litigation related to the placement of personal accident reinsurance. The favorable impacts were also partially offset by an increase to payout annuity benefit reserves resulting from unlocking assumptions due to loss recognition, unfavorable results in CNAs long term care business and less favorable performance on CNAs pension deposit business. Certain of the separate account investment contracts related to CNAs pension deposit business guarantee principal and an annual minimum rate of interest, for which CNA recorded an additional pretax liability of $68 million in Policyholders funds during 2008 due to declines in the fair value of the investments supporting this business at that time. During 2009, CNA decreased this pretax liability by $42 million, and during 2010, CNA decreased the pretax liability by $24 million, based on increases in the fair value of these investments during those periods. 2009 Compared with 2008 Net earned premiums for Life & Group Non Core decreased $17 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. Net loss decreased $157 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. This improvement was primarily due to improved net realized investment results, and favorable performance on CNAs remaining pension deposit business and a settlement reached with Willis Limited both as discussed above. These favorable impacts were partially offset by unfavorable results in CNAs long term care business and a $25 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) legal accrual recorded in the second quarter of 2009 related to a previously held limited partnership investment. The limited partnership investment supported the indexed group annuity portion of CNAs pension deposit business. Net investment income for the year ended December 31, 2008 included trading portfolio losses of $146 million, which were substantially offset by a corresponding decrease in the policyholders funds reserves supported by the trading portfolio. This trading portfolio supported the indexed group annuity portion of CNAs pension deposit business. During 62 Table of Contents 2008, CNA settled these liabilities with policyholders with no material impact to results of operations. That business had a net loss of $20 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Other Insurance The following table summarizes the results of operations for the Other Insurance segment, including A&EP and intrasegment eliminations: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Net investment income $ 137 $ 195 $ 169 Net operating loss (334 ) (59 ) (50 ) Net realized investment gains (losses) 12 (45 ) (88 ) Net loss (322 ) (104 ) (138 ) 2010 Compared with 2009 Net loss increased $218 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by the loss of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) as a result of the Loss Portfolio Transfer, as previously discussed in this MD&A. Net results were also impacted by lower net investment income and higher interest expense. Partially offsetting these unfavorable items were decreased unfavorable net prior year development and improved net realized investment results. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net investment income and net realized investment results. Unfavorable net prior year development of $6 million was recorded in 2010, and unfavorable net prior year development of $159 million was recorded in 2009 which included $79 million for asbestos exposures and $76 million for environmental pollution exposures. Further information on Other Insurance net prior year development for 2009 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for the Other Insurance segment: December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 1,430 $ 1,503 Gross IBNR Reserves 2,012 2,265 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 3,442 $ 3,768 Net Case Reserves $ 461 $ 935 Net IBNR Reserves 257 1,404 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 718 $ 2,339 2009 Compared with 2008 Net loss decreased $34 million in 2009 as compared with 2008, primarily due to improved net realized investment results and higher net investment income. Partially offsetting these favorable items was increased unfavorable net prior year development primarily related to A&EP. Unfavorable net prior year development of $159 million was recorded in 2009, compared to unfavorable net prior year development of $123 million in 2008. Further information on Other Insurance net prior year development for 2009 and 2008 is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 63 Table of Contents Diamond Offshore The two most significant variables affecting Diamond Offshores revenues are dayrates for rigs and rig utilization rates, each of which is a function of rig supply and demand in the marketplace. Demand for drilling services is dependent upon the level of expenditures set by oil and gas companies for offshore exploration and development, as well as a variety of political, regulatory and economic factors. The availability of rigs in a particular geographical region also affects both dayrates and utilization rates. These factors are not within Diamond Offshores control and are difficult to predict. Demand affects the number of days Diamond Offshores fleet is utilized and the dayrates earned. As utilization rates increase, dayrates tend to increase as well, reflecting the lower supply of available rigs. Conversely, as utilization rates decrease, dayrates tend to decrease as well, reflecting the excess supply of rigs. When a rig is idle, no dayrate is earned and revenues will decrease as a result. Revenues can also be affected as a result of the acquisition or disposal of rigs, required surveys and shipyard upgrades. In order to improve utilization or realize higher dayrates, Diamond Offshore may mobilize its rigs from one market to another. However, during periods of mobilization, revenues may be adversely affected. As a response to changes in demand, Diamond Offshore may withdraw a rig from the market by stacking it or may reactivate a rig stacked previously, which may decrease or increase revenues. Diamond Offshores operating income is primarily affected by revenue factors, but is also a function of varying levels of operating expenses. Diamond Offshores operating expenses represent all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation and maintenance of its drilling equipment. The principal components of Diamond Offshores operating costs are, among other things, direct and indirect costs of labor and benefits, repairs and maintenance, freight, regulatory inspections, boat and helicopter rentals and insurance. Labor and repair and maintenance costs represent the most significant components of Diamond Offshores operating expenses. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels, rig staffing requirements and costs associated with labor regulations in the geographic regions in which Diamond Offshores rigs operate. Costs to repair and maintain Diamond Offshores equipment fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the drilling rig is performing, as well as the age and condition of the equipment and the regions in which Diamond Offshores rigs are working. Operating expenses generally are not affected by changes in dayrates, and short term reductions in utilization do not necessarily result in lower operating expenses. For instance, if a rig is to be idle for a short period of time, few decreases in operating expenses may actually occur since the rig is typically maintained in a prepared or ready stacked state with a full crew. In addition, when a rig is idle, Diamond Offshore is responsible for certain operating expenses such as rig fuel and supply boat costs, which are typically costs of the operator when a rig is under contract. However, if the rig is to be idle for an extended period of time, Diamond Offshore may reduce the size of a rigs crew and take steps to cold stack the rig, which lowers expenses and partially offsets the impact on operating income. Operating income is negatively impacted when Diamond Offshore performs certain regulatory inspections, which it refers to as a 5 year survey, or special survey, that are due every five years for each of Diamond Offshores rigs. Operating revenue decreases because these special surveys are performed during scheduled downtime in a shipyard. Operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, inspection costs incurred and repair and maintenance costs. Repair and maintenance activities may result from the survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. The number of rigs undergoing a 5 year survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. During 2011, seven of Diamond Offshores rigs will require 5 year surveys, and it expects that they will be out of service for approximately 455 days in the aggregate. In addition, operating income may be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between 5 year surveys. Intermediate surveys are generally less extensive in duration and scope than a 5 year survey. Although an intermediate survey may require some downtime for the drilling rig, it normally does not require dry docking or shipyard time, except for rigs located in the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea. Diamond Offshore expects to spend approximately 290 days during 2011 for intermediate surveys, the mobilization of rigs, contract acceptance testing and extended maintenance projects. Diamond Offshore is self insured for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (GOM). If a named windstorm in the GOM causes significant damage to Diamond Offshores rigs or equipment, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Under 64 Table of Contents Diamond Offshores insurance policy that expires on May 1, 2011, it carries physical damage insurance for certain losses other than those caused by named windstorms in the GOM for which its deductible for physical damage is $25 million per occurrence. Diamond Offshore does not typically retain loss of hire insurance policies to cover its rigs. In addition, under Diamond Offshores insurance policy that expires on May 1, 2011, Diamond Offshore carries marine liability insurance covering certain legal liabilities, including coverage for certain personal injury claims, with no exclusions for pollution and or environmental risk. Diamond Offshore believes that the policy limit for its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. Diamond Offshores deductibles for marine liability coverage, including for personal injury claims, are $10 million for the first occurrence and vary in amounts ranging between $5 million and, if aggregate claims exceed certain thresholds, up to $100 million for each subsequent occurrence, depending on the nature, severity and frequency of claims which might arise during the policy year, which under the current policy commences on May 1 of each year. On April 20, 2010, the Macondo well (operated by BP plc and drilled by Transocean Ltd) in the GOM experienced a blowout and immediately began flowing oil into the GOM (the Macondo incident). Efforts to permanently plug and abandon the well and contain the spill were successfully completed in September 2010. As a result of the Macondo incident, insurance costs across the industry are expected to increase, and in the future certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all. Recent Developments On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the ban on certain drilling activities in the GOM. All drilling in the GOM is now subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements set forth in Notices to Lessees (NTL) 2010 N05 and 2010 N06, both of which were implemented during the drilling ban. Additionally, all drilling in the GOM is required to comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule) and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems, which have become final, as well as NTL 2010 N10 (known as the Compliance and Review NTL). Diamond Offshore continues to evaluate these new measures to ensure that its rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. Additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the Macondo incident. Diamond Offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking. Nor is Diamond Offshore able to predict when the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE) will issue drilling permits to Diamond Offshores customers. Diamond Offshore is not able to predict the future impact of these events on its operations. Even with the drilling ban lifted, certain deepwater drilling activities remain suspended until the BOEMRE resumes its regular permitting of those activities. It has been reported that the industry currently has 36 floating rigs in the GOM that have been impacted by the moratorium and that five floating rigs have left the GOM since the imposition of the moratorium, two of which rigs were Diamond Offshores. As of the date of this report, Diamond Offshore has two semisubmersible rigs under contract in the GOM, in addition to the Ocean Monarch, whose contract the operator has sought to terminate as discussed below, as well as two jack up rigs, one of which is under contract. Given the continuing uncertainty with respect to drilling activity in the GOM, Diamond Offshores customers may seek to move additional rigs to locations outside of the GOM or perform activities which are allowed under the enhanced safety requirements. In June of 2010, one of Diamond Offshores customers asserted force majeure as a basis for its termination of the drilling contract for the Ocean Monarch, which had a remaining term of approximately 36 months. The operator has also filed suit against Diamond Offshore in U.S. District Court in Houston seeking a declaratory judgment that its termination of the drilling contract is warranted under the contract. Diamond Offshore does not believe the events cited by the operator come within the definition of force majeure under the drilling contract, and Diamond Offshore does not believe that the operator has the right to terminate the drilling contract on this basis. Although Diamond Offshore cannot predict with certainty the results of any such litigation, and there can be no assurance as to its ultimate outcome, it intends to vigorously defend this litigation and challenge the operators attempt to terminate the drilling contract. Diamond Offshore is continuing to actively seek international opportunities to keep its rigs employed. However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance that it will be successful in its efforts to employ its remaining impacted rigs in the GOM in the near term. In addition, given the ongoing uncertainty in the GOM with respect to drilling activity and other industry factors, Diamond Offshore has cold stacked two intermediate semisubmersible rigs and four jack up rigs in the GOM. 65 Table of Contents While dayrates Diamond Offshore receives for new contracts are no longer at the peak levels achieved at the height of the most recent up cycle, improving oil prices, which had climbed to approximately $90 per barrel by the end of 2010, appear to be supporting demand for Diamond Offshores equipment. As a result, dayrates for Diamond Offshores international floater rigs appear to have stabilized, though demand for its services has not risen sufficiently to provide significant pricing power on new contracts. Additionally, the continuing regulatory uncertainty in the GOM could cause Diamond Offshore or others to move additional rigs out of the GOM to international locations. If Diamond Offshore, or others, move a large number of additional rigs out of the GOM to international locations, the increased supply of available rigs entering the international market, coupled with un contracted new build rigs scheduled for delivery between now and the end of 2011, could create downward pressure on dayrates unless demand improves sufficiently to absorb the new supply. Diamond Offshore currently has one high specification floater and two jack up rigs contracted offshore Egypt with an aggregate net book value of $270 million, or approximately 6.0% of Diamond Offshores total operating assets at December 31, 2010. Although these rigs have continued to work throughout the recent political unrest in Egypt, there have been, and in the future there may be other, disruptions to the support networks within Egypt, including the banking institutions. At February 1, 2011, Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog related to its drilling operations offshore Egypt was approximately $60 million, or 2.2% of its total contract backlog, for 2011. Diamond Offshores customers may attempt to assert force majeure under the agreements under which these rigs are operating. As of the date of this report, Diamond Offshore has not received any force majeure assertions with respect to its Egyptian operations. Since September 30, 2010 through the date of this report, Diamond Offshore has entered into 17 new drilling contracts totaling approximately $457 million in backlog and ranging in duration from one well to one year. As of February 1, 2011, Diamond Offshores contract backlog was approximately $6.6 billion, of which its contracts in the GOM (excluding amounts related to the contract for the Ocean Monarch discussed above) represented approximately $141 million, or 2.1%, of Diamond Offshores total contract backlog. Contract Drilling Backlog The following table reflects Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011, October 18, 2010 (the date reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010) and February 1, 2010 (the date reported in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009). Contract drilling backlog is calculated by multiplying the contracted operating dayrate by the firm contract period and adding one half of any potential rig performance bonuses. Diamond Offshores calculation also assumes full utilization of its drilling equipment for the contract period (excluding scheduled shipyard and survey days); however, the amount of actual revenue earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will be different than the amounts and periods shown in the tables below due to various factors. Utilization rates, which generally approach 95.0% 98.0% during contracted periods, can be adversely impacted by downtime due to various operating factors including, but not limited to, weather conditions and unscheduled repairs and maintenance. Contract drilling backlog excludes revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation and customer reimbursables. No revenue is generally earned during periods of downtime for regulatory surveys. Changes in Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog between periods are a function of the performance of work on term contracts, as well as the extension or modification of existing term contracts and the execution of additional contracts. February 1,2011 October 18,2010 (d) February 1,2010 (d) (In millions) High specification floaters (a) $ 3,838 $ 4,371 $ 4,177 Intermediate semisubmersible rigs (b) 2,700 3,009 4,030 Jack ups (c) 107 122 249 Total $ 6,645 $ 7,502 $ 8,456 66 Table of Contents (a) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores high specification floaters includes (i) $3.0 billion attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2011 to 2016, and (ii) $100 million attributable to contracted operations in the GOM during 2011. (b) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores intermediate semisubmersible rigs includes (i) $2.1 billion attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2011 to 2015, and (ii) $36 million attributable to contracted operations in the GOM during 2011. (c) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores jack ups includes (i) $49 million attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2011 and 2012, and (ii) $5 million attributable to contracted operations in the GOM during 2011. (d) Contract drilling backlog as of October 18, 2010 and February 1, 2010 includes $394 million and $424 million attributable to the Ocean Monarch pursuant to a contract that the operator has sought to terminate. The following table reflects the amount of Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog by year as of February 1, 2011. Year Ended December 31 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 (In millions) High specification floaters (a) $ 3,838 $ 1,470 $ 1,034 $ 615 $ 719 Intermediate semisubmersible rigs (b) 2,700 1,145 811 429 315 Jack ups (c) 107 103 4 Total $ 6,645 $ 2,718 $ 1,849 $ 1,044 $ 1,034 (a) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores high specification floaters includes (i) $851 million, $790 million and $615 million for the years 2011 to 2013, and $719 million in the aggregate for the years 2014 to 2016 attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil, and (ii) $100 million for 2011 attributable to contracted operations in the GOM. (b) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores intermediate semisubmersible rigs includes (i) $762 million, $683 million and $372 million for the years 2011 to 2013, and $315 million in the aggregate for the years 2014 to 2016 attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil, and (ii) $36 million for 2011 attributable to contracted operations in the GOM. (c) Contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2011 for Diamond Offshores jack ups includes (i) $45 million and $4 million for years 2011 and 2012 attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil, and (ii) $5 million for 2011 attributable to contracted operations in the GOM. The following table reflects the percentage of rig days committed by year as of February 1, 2011. The percentage of rig days committed is calculated as the ratio of total days committed under contracts, as well as scheduled shipyard, survey and mobilization days for all rigs in Diamond Offshores fleet, to total available days (number of rigs multiplied by the number of days in a particular year). Total available days have been calculated based on the expected final commissioning date for the Ocean Valor. Year Ended December 31 2011 (a) 2012 (a) 2013 2014 2016 High specification floaters 83.0 % 60.0 % 33.0 % 13.0 % Intermediate semisubmersible rigs 66.0 % 44.0 % 22.0 % 5.0 % Jack ups 24.0 % 1.0 % (a) Includes approximately 770 and 420 scheduled shipyard, survey and mobilization days for 2011 and 2012. 67 Table of Contents Dayrate and Utilization Statistics Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Revenue earning days (a) High specification floaters 3,562 3,599 3,550 Intermediate semisubmursible rigs 5,453 5,926 5,792 Jack ups 3,028 3,382 4,642 Utilization (b) High specification floaters 70.7 % 78.7 % 88.2 % Intermediate semisubmursible rigs 78.6 % 85.4 % 83.3 % Jack ups 60.8 % 66.2 % 90.3 % Average daily revenue (c) High specification floaters $ 374,600 $ 380,500 $ 372,100 Intermediate semisubmursible rigs 276,700 283,700 276,400 Jack ups 87,700 129,900 110,000 (a) A revenue earning day is defined as a 24 hour period during which a rig earns a dayrate after commencement of operations and excludes mobilization, demobilization and contract preparation days. (b) Utilization is calculated as the ratio of total revenue earnings days divided by the total calendar days in the period for all rigs in Diamond Offshores fleet (including cold stacked rigs). (c) Average daily revenue is defined as contract drilling revenue (excluding revenue for mobilization, demobilization and contract preparation) per revenue earning day. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for Diamond Offshore for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Contract drilling revenues $ 3,230 $ 3,537 $ 3,476 Net investment income 3 4 12 Investment gains 1 1 Other 128 112 (2 ) Total 3,361 3,654 3,487 Expenses: Contract drilling expenses 1,391 1,224 1,185 Other operating expenses 546 515 448 Interest 91 50 10 Total 2,028 1,789 1,643 Income before income tax 1,333 1,865 1,844 Income tax expense (413 ) (540 ) (582 ) Net income 920 1,325 1,262 Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (474 ) (682 ) (650 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 446 $ 643 $ 612 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues decreased $293 million, or 8.0%, and net income decreased $197 million or 30.6%, in 2010, as compared to 2009. During 2010, Diamond Offshores operating results were negatively impacted by a decline in average daily revenue earned by its rigs in 2010 from the levels attained in 2009. While Diamond Offshores contracted revenue 68 Table of Contents backlog partially mitigated the impact of the weakened market conditions, total contract drilling revenue decreased $307 million compared to 2009. In 2010, Diamond Offshore cold stacked three additional rigs in the GOM, consisting of two intermediate semisubmersible rigs and one jack up rig. However, the two newest additions to Diamond Offshores floater fleet, the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, began operating under contract during the first and fourth quarters of 2010 and contributed $109 million to revenue. Additionally, Diamond Offshore recognized a gain of $33 million in connection with the sale of the Ocean Shield in July 2010. Revenues from high specification floaters increased $34 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due to increased dayrates of $59 million, increased amortized mobilization costs of $41 million and a $31 million contract termination fee received in relation to the Ocean Endeavor. These amounts were partially offset by a $97 million decrease in utilization, which decreased from 78.7% in 2009 to 70.7% in 2010. Revenues from intermediate semisubmersible rigs decreased $152 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due to decreased utilization of $151 million, which decreased from 85.4% in 2009 to 78.6% in 2010. Intermediate semisubmersible rigs experienced 473 less revenue earning days in 2010 compared to 2009, combined with lower average daily revenue. In 2010, Diamond Offshore cold stacked the Ocean Voyager and Ocean New Era. Revenues from jack up rigs decreased $189 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due to decreased dayrates of $123 million and decreased utilization of $51 million. Jack up rigs experienced 354 less revenue earning days in 2010 compared to 2009, combined with lower average daily revenue. In 2010, Diamond Offshore cold stacked the Ocean Spartan. Net income decreased in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due to the changes in revenues as noted above and an increase in Contract drilling expense. Contract drilling expense increased $167 million and included normal operating costs for the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, as well as increased amortized mobilization costs and increased other operating costs associated with rigs operating internationally rather than domestically. Other operating expenses include an increase in depreciation of $47 million in 2010 due to a higher depreciable asset base, including depreciation on the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, which were placed in service in September 2009 and March 2010, but did not begin drilling operations until 2010. Interest expense increased $41 million due to a full year of interest expense in 2010 for Diamond Offshores issuance of 5.9% senior notes in May of 2009, and the issuance of 5.7% senior notes in October of 2009. Diamond Offshores effective tax rate increased in 2010 as compared with 2009. The higher effective tax rate is a result of differences in the mix between its domestic and international pretax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of international tax jurisdictions in which Diamond Offshore operates. Also contributing to the higher effective tax rate in the current period were taxes associated with the sale of the Ocean Shield. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues increased $167 million, or 4.8%, and net income increased $31 million or 5.1%, in 2009, as compared to 2008. During 2009, Diamond Offshores contracted revenue backlog substantially mitigated the impact of the global economic recession on its industry. However, Diamond Offshores operating results also reflect the negative impact of ready stacking the Ocean Star, Ocean Victory, Ocean Guardian and Ocean Scepter for extended periods and the cold stacking of three mat supported jack up rigs in the GOM. In addition, the international jack up market, which had been strong throughout the majority of 2008, also reflected softening demand and reduced dayrates during 2009. Revenues from high specification floaters increased $59 million in 2009 as compared to 2008, primarily due to increased dayrates of $60 million. High specification floaters experienced 49 more revenue earning days in 2009 as compared to 2008, combined with an increase in average daily revenue. Revenues from intermediate semisubmersible rigs increased $69 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. This increase was primarily due to increased dayrates of $60 million and utilization of $20 million, offset by lower amortized mobilization costs. Intermediate semisubmersible rigs experienced 134 more revenue earning days in 2009 as compared to 2008, combined with an increase in average daily revenue. 69 Table of Contents Revenues from jack up rigs decreased $68 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. This decrease was primarily due to decreased utilization of $80 million, which decreased from 90.3% in 2008 to 66.2% in 2009, partially offset by increased dayrates of $9 million in 2009. Net income increased in 2009 as compared to 2008, primarily due to the changes in revenues as noted above. Operating costs are inclusive of normal operating costs for the upgraded Ocean Monarch and Diamond Offshores new jack up rigs, Ocean Shield and Ocean Scepter, as well as contract preparation, partially offset by lower operating costs resulting from the decline in utilization and overall lower survey and related costs compared to the prior period. Other operating expenses include an increase in depreciation of $59 million during 2009 due to a higher depreciable asset base. Interest expense increased $40 million due to the additional expense related to the issuance of 5.9% senior notes in May of 2009, the issuance of 5.7% senior notes in October of 2009 and the reduction of capitalized interest resulting from completion of construction projects. HighMount We use the following terms throughout this discussion of HighMounts results of operations, with equivalent volumes computed with oil and NGL quantities converted to Mcf, on an energy equivalent ratio of one barrel to six Mcf: Bbl Barrel (of oil or NGLs) Bcf Billion cubic feet (of natural gas) Bcfe Billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent Mbbl Thousand barrels (of oil or NGLs) Mcf Thousand cubic feet (of natural gas) Mcfe Thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent MMBtu Million British thermal units HighMounts revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on natural gas and NGL prices and HighMounts ability to increase its natural gas and NGL production. In recent years, there has been significant price volatility in natural gas and NGL prices due to a variety of factors HighMount cannot control or predict. These factors, which include weather conditions, political and economic events, and competition from other energy sources, impact supply and demand for natural gas, which determines the pricing. In addition, the price HighMount realizes for its gas production is affected by HighMounts hedging activities as well as locational differences in market prices. The level of natural gas production is dependent upon HighMounts ability to realize attractive returns on its capital investment program. Returns are affected by commodity prices, capital and operating costs. HighMounts operating expenses consist primarily of production expenses, production and ad valorem taxes, as well as depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expenses. Production expenses represent costs incurred to operate and maintain wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs. Production and ad valorem taxes increase or decrease primarily when prices of natural gas and NGLs increase or decrease, but they are also affected by changes in production, as well as appreciated property values. HighMount calculates depletion using the units of production method, which depletes the capitalized costs and future development costs associated with evaluated properties based on the ratio of production volumes for the current period to total remaining reserve volumes for the evaluated properties. HighMounts depletion expense is affected by its capital spending program and projected future development costs, as well as reserve changes resulting from drilling programs, well performance and revisions due to changing commodity prices. Sale of Assets On April 30, 2010, HighMount completed the sale of substantially all exploration and production assets located in the Antrim Shale in Michigan to a subsidiary of Linn Energy, LLC for approximately $330 million, subject to adjustment, and on May 28, 2010, HighMount completed the sale of substantially all exploration and production assets located in the Black Warrior Basin in Alabama to a subsidiary of Walter Energy for approximately $210 million, subject to adjustment. The Michigan and Alabama properties represented approximately 17.0% in aggregate of HighMounts total proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. These sales did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Substantially all of HighMounts remaining natural gas exploration and production operations are located in the Permian Basin in Texas. 70 Table of Contents Production and Sales Statistics Presented below are production and sales statistics related to HighMounts operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Gas production (Bcf) 57.4 77.0 78.9 Gas sales (Bcf) 53.6 70.8 72.5 Oil production/sales (Mbbls) 253.9 363.0 351.3 NGL production/sales (Mbbls) 3,008.9 3,315.9 3,507.4 Equivalent production (Bcfe) 77.0 99.0 102.0 Equivalent sales (Bcfe) 73.2 92.9 95.7 Average realized prices without hedging results: Gas (per Mcf) $ 4.30 $ 3.72 $ 8.25 NGL (per Bbl) 40.96 30.07 51.26 Oil (per Bbl) 73.80 55.37 95.26 Equivalent (per Mcfe) 5.09 4.13 8.48 Average realized prices with hedging results: Gas (per Mcf) $ 6.03 $ 6.94 $ 7.71 NGL (per Bbl) 34.84 30.98 47.73 Oil (per Bbl) 73.80 55.37 95.26 Equivalent (per Mcfe) 6.10 6.61 7.94 Average cost per Mcfe: Production expenses $ 1.12 $ 1.10 $ 1.04 Production and ad valorem taxes 0.37 0.36 0.70 General and administrative expenses 0.62 0.58 0.69 Depletion expense 0.93 0.98 1.58 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for HighMount for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 455 $ 620 $ 770 Investment losses (30 ) Total 425 620 770 Expenses: Impairment of natural gas and oil properties 1,036 691 Impairment of goodwill 482 Operating 258 343 411 Interest 61 80 76 Total 319 1,459 1,660 Income (loss) before income tax 106 (839 ) (890 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (48 ) 302 315 Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 58 $ (537) $ (575) 71 Table of Contents 2010 Compared with 2009 Since 2008, natural gas prices have declined significantly. Consequently, HighMount has reduced its drilling program in 2009 and 2010, which negatively impacted HighMounts 2010 production volumes and revenues. HighMounts operating revenues decreased by $165 million to $455 million in 2010, compared to $620 million in 2009. Operating revenues decreased by $88 million due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama. Permian Basin operating revenues decreased by $77 million on sales volumes of 66.5 Bcfe in 2010 compared to 74.6 Bcfe in 2009. Average prices realized per Mcfe for Permian Basin sales were $6.02 in 2010 compared to $6.42 in 2009. The decrease in Permian Basin sales volume is primarily due to the reduction in HighMounts drilling activity in 2009 and 2010. HighMount had hedges in place as of December 31, 2010 that covered approximately 75.1% and 37.4% of HighMounts total estimated 2011 and 2012 natural gas equivalent production at a weighted average price of $6.35 and $5.65 per Mcfe. As a result of the Michigan and Alabama asset sales, a portion of the expected underlying transactions related to HighMounts interest rate and commodity hedging activities were no longer probable of occurring and hedge accounting was discontinued. This resulted in a pretax loss of $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. In the first quarter of 2009, HighMount recorded a non cash ceiling test impairment charge of $1,036 million ($660 million after tax) related to the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties. The write down was the result of declines in commodity prices. Had the effects of HighMounts cash flow hedges not been considered in calculating the ceiling limitation, the impairment would have been $1,230 million ($784 million after tax). No such impairment was required during 2010. Operating expenses decreased by $85 million to $258 million in 2010, compared to $343 million in 2009. The decline reflects a $39 million decrease related to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama, partially offset by an $11 million adjustment to property impairment recorded in 2009. During 2009, HighMount incurred non recurring operating expenses of $32 million related to fees for early termination rights on drilling rig contracts and a tubular inventory impairment charge. In addition, operating expenses in Permian decreased $25 million due to lower DD&A expenses, lower production and ad valorem taxes and cost cutting efforts in 2010. DD&A expenses declined to $92 million in 2010, compared to $119 million in 2009, reflecting a $16 million decrease due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama and an $11 million reduction in HighMounts depletion rate in 2010, primarily due to the impairment of natural gas and oil properties recorded in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008 HighMounts operating revenues decreased by $150 million to $620 million in 2009, compared to $770 million for 2008. This decrease was primarily due to lower commodity prices which decreased revenues by $123 million. HighMount sales volumes were 92.9 Bcfe in 2009 compared to 95.7 Bcfe during 2008. This decrease reflects the reduction in HighMounts drilling activity beginning in late 2008 and production curtailments during the third and fourth quarters of 2009, partially offset by the expiration of the Volumetric Production Payment (VPP) agreements in 2009. These VPP agreements obligated HighMount to deliver specified quantities of natural gas. Natural gas sales and production costs related to the VPP agreements were not recognized in HighMounts results. HighMount had hedges in place as of December 31, 2009 that covered approximately 64.0% and 35.0% of HighMounts total estimated 2010 and 2011 natural gas equivalent production at a weighted average price of $6.43 and $6.49 per Mcfe. As discussed above, in the first quarter of 2009 and at December 31, 2008, HighMount recorded a non cash ceiling test impairment charges of $1,036 million ($660 million after tax) and $691 million ($440 million after tax), related to the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties. Operating expenses decreased by $68 million to $343 million in 2009, compared to $411 million in 2008. The decrease in operating expenses reflects a $58 million decrease in DD&A expenses, $34 million decrease in production and ad valorem taxes and a $19 million decrease due to cost cutting efforts. The decrease in operating expenses was 72 Table of Contents partly offset by non recurring operating expenses of $32 million related to fees for early termination rights on drilling rig contracts and a tubular inventory impairment charge, as well as $11 million in additional costs recognized as a result of the expiration of the VPP agreements in February of 2009. DD&A expenses declined to $119 million in 2009 from $177 million in 2008, primarily due to a reduction in HighMounts depletion rate. HighMounts depletion rate decreased primarily due to impairments of natural gas and oil properties recorded in December of 2008 and March of 2009, as well as lower projected future development costs. Boardwalk Pipeline Boardwalk Pipeline derives revenues primarily from the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas for third parties. Transportation services consist of firm transportation, whereby the customer pays a capacity reservation charge to reserve pipeline capacity at certain receipt and delivery points along pipeline systems, plus a commodity and fuel charge on the volume of natural gas actually transported, and interruptible transportation, whereby the customer pays to transport gas only when capacity is available and used. Boardwalk Pipeline offers firm storage services in which the customer reserves and pays for a specific amount of storage capacity, including injection and withdrawal rights, and interruptible storage and parking and lending (PAL) services where the customer receives and pays for capacity only when it is available and used. Some PAL agreements are paid for at inception of the service and revenues for these agreements are recognized as service is provided over the term of the agreement. Boardwalk Pipelines ability to market available interstate transportation and storage capacity is impacted by demand for natural gas, competition from other pipelines, natural gas price volatility, basis spreads, economic conditions and other factors. Boardwalk Pipeline competes with numerous interstate and intrastate pipelines, including several pipeline projects which have recently been placed in service or are in the process of being developed. Additionally, significant new sources of natural gas have recently been identified throughout the U.S., including the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania, New York, West Virginia and Ohio, which is closer to key end user market areas than Boardwalk Pipelines supply sources. These new sources of natural gas have created changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas. As a result of the increase in overall pipeline capacity and the new sources of supply, in 2009 the basis spreads on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems began to narrow. This trend continued into 2010, although in the latter part of 2010 these basis spreads improved. Under current market conditions, marketing Boardwalk Pipelines available capacity and renewing expiring contracts has become more difficult. Boardwalk Pipelines ability to renew some of its expiring contracts at attractive rates and the revenues from interruptible and short term firm transportation services, have been negatively impacted by these market conditions. Capacity that Boardwalk Pipeline has available on a short term basis has decreased as long term capacity commitments on the recently completed pipeline expansion projects have increased in accordance with the contracts supporting those projects. However, some of Boardwalk Pipelines capacity will continue to be available for sale on a short term firm or interruptible basis and each year a portion of Boardwalk Pipelines existing contracts expire. The revenues Boardwalk Pipeline will be able to earn from that available capacity and from renewals of expiring contracts will be heavily dependent upon basis spreads. It is not possible to accurately predict future basis spreads. Boardwalk Pipeline is not in the business of buying and selling natural gas other than for system management purposes, but changes in the level of natural gas prices may impact the volumes of gas transported on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems. High natural gas prices may result in a reduction in the demand for natural gas. A reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on Boardwalk Pipelines systems, reduce the demand for its services and result in the non renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire. The majority of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues are derived from capacity reservation charges that are not impacted by the volume of natural gas transported, however smaller portions of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues are derived from charges based on actual volumes transported under firm and interruptible services. For example, in 2010 approximately 22.0% of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues were derived from charges based on actual volumes transported. Boardwalk Pipeline cannot predict the level of future natural gas prices. Spreads in natural gas prices between time periods, such as winter to summer, impact Boardwalk Pipelines PAL and interruptible storage revenues. These price spreads were unfavorable in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulting in a 73 Table of Contents reduction of PAL and interruptible storage revenues for the 2010 period. Boardwalk Pipeline cannot predict future time period spreads or basis differentials. Recently Completed Pipeline Projects An abundance of recent natural gas supply discoveries in the Bossier Sands, Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale and Caney Woodford Shale producing regions has formed the basis for the recent expansion of Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems. In 2008 and 2009, Boardwalk Pipeline placed in service the East Texas Pipeline, Southeast Project, Gulf Crossing Pipeline and the Fayetteville and Greenville Laterals (pipeline expansion projects), which collectively consist of approximately 1,000 miles of 42 inch and 36 inch pipeline and related compression facilities. In 2010, Boardwalk Pipeline placed in service the remaining compression facilities associated with the Gulf Crossing Pipeline and the Fayetteville and Greenville Laterals which increased the peak day delivery capacities of those projects. With the exception of post construction activities such as right of way restoration, the pipeline expansion projects are essentially complete and operating at their design capacity. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for Boardwalk Pipeline for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 1,128 $ 910 $ 845 Net investment income 1 3 Total 1,129 910 848 Expenses: Operating 695 621 498 Interest 151 132 58 Total 846 753 556 Income before income tax 283 157 292 Income tax expense (73 ) (44 ) (79 ) Net income 210 113 213 Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (96 ) (46 ) (88 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 114 $ 67 $ 125 2010 Compared with 2009 Total revenues increased $219 million to $1,129 million in 2010, compared to $910 million for 2009. Gas transportation revenues, excluding fuel, increased $199 million and fuel retained increased $31 million, primarily due to the pipeline expansion projects. In addition, there was an $18 million gain from the sale of gas related to the western Kentucky storage expansion project and a reduction in storage gas needed to support no notice services. These increases were partially offset by $14 million of lower interruptible and short term firm transportation services resulting from lower basis spreads between delivery points on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems. PAL and storage revenues decreased $9 million due to decreased parking opportunities from unfavorable natural gas price spreads between time periods. Operating expenses increased $74 million to $695 million in 2010, compared to $621 million for 2009. This increase was primarily driven by a $47 million increase in fuel consumed due to the pipeline expansion projects and higher natural gas prices. There was a $24 million increase in depreciation and property taxes due to a larger asset base from the pipeline expansion projects and a $10 million increase in operation and maintenance expenses due to an increase in major maintenance projects. The 2009 period was unfavorably impacted by $8 million of pipeline investigation and retirement costs related to the East Texas Pipeline. Interest expense increased $19 million due to higher debt levels in 2010 and lower capitalized interest due to the completion of Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline expansion projects. 74 Table of Contents Net income increased $47 million to $114 million in 2010, compared to $67 million for 2009 due to higher revenues from transportation services primarily from the pipeline expansion projects and a gain on gas sales, partially offset by increased operating expenses related to higher depreciation and property taxes associated with the pipeline expansion projects and increased interest expense. In 2009, gas transportation revenues and throughput were negatively impacted due to operating the pipeline expansion projects at reduced operating pressures and portions of the pipeline expansion projects being shut down for periods of time following the discovery and remediation of anomalies in certain joints of pipe. 2009 Compared with 2008 Total revenues increased $62 million to $910 million in 2009, compared to $848 million for 2008. Gas transportation revenues, excluding fuel, increased $152 million, primarily from Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline expansion projects. PAL revenues increased $19 million due to increased parking opportunities and favorable summer to summer natural gas price spreads. These increases were partially offset by lower fuel revenues of $53 million due to unfavorable natural gas prices. The 2008 period was favorably impacted by gains of $35 million on the sale of gas related to the western Kentucky storage expansion project, $17 million from the disposition of coal reserves and $11 million from the settlement of a contract claim. Operating expenses increased $123 million to $621 million in 2009, compared to $498 million for 2008 primarily due to higher depreciation and property taxes of $116 million associated with a larger asset base from the pipeline expansion projects. Operation and maintenance expenses increased $13 million primarily from increased maintenance projects and expansion related operations. Administrative and general expenses increased $11 million mainly due to increases in employee benefits as a result of lower returns on trust assets for pension and post retirement benefit plans, and increases in unit based compensation from an increase in the price of Boardwalk Pipelines common units. Operation and maintenance expenses and losses on disposal of assets were $8 million higher due to pipeline investigation and retirement costs related to the East Texas Pipeline. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in fuel and gas transportation expenses of $41 million primarily as a result of lower natural gas prices. The 2008 period was favorably impacted by a gain of $7 million due to a change in the employee paid time off policy which resulted in a reserve reversal. Interest expense increased $74 million resulting from lower capitalized interest associated with placing expansion projects in service and higher debt levels in 2009. Net income decreased $58 million to $67 million in 2009, compared to $125 million for 2008 primarily due to higher operating expenses, mainly as a result of increases in depreciation and property taxes associated with the expansion projects. The increase in expenses more than offset the increase in revenues from the expansion projects, which were approximately $122 million lower than expected due to operating the expansion pipelines at reduced operating pressures and portions of the expansion pipelines being shut down for periods of time during 2009. The 2008 period was favorably impacted by gains of $70 million from the disposition of coal reserves, gas sales, a change in the employee paid time off policy and the settlement of a contract claim. 75 Table of Contents Loews Hotels The following table summarizes the results of operations for Loews Hotels for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 307 $ 284 $ 379 Net investment income 1 1 Total 308 284 380 Expenses: Operating 296 327 307 Interest 10 9 11 Total 306 336 318 Income (loss) before income tax 2 (52 ) 62 Income tax (expense) benefit (1 ) 18 (22 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 1 $ (34 ) $ 40 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues increased by $24 million, or 8.5%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. Net income amounted to $1 million in 2010 as compared to a net loss of $34 million in 2009. Revenue per available room increased $13.29 to $147.89 in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in revenue per available room reflects improving occupancy and average room rates. Occupancy rates increased to 70.1% in 2010 from 66.4% in 2009. Average room rates increased by $8.23, or 4.1%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating expenses in 2009 included aggregate pretax charges of $47 million due to the impact of the contracting U.S. economy. These charges included $27 million for the impairment of Loews Hotels entire investment in its Loews Lake Las Vegas property, $10 million related to a development project commitment and $10 million for a loan guarantee at a managed hotel. The improvement in operating results is primarily due to the absence of charges recorded in 2009 as discussed above, and also reflects the increase in revenue per available room in 2010. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues decreased by $96 million or 25.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008. There was a net loss of $34 million in 2009 as compared to net income of $40 million in 2008. Revenues decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, due to a decrease in revenue per available room to $134.60, compared to $183.01 in 2008. Occupancy rates decreased from 73.3% to 66.4% in 2009 as compared to 2008. Average room rates decreased by $46.86, or 18.8%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decline in revenue per available room reflected the contraction in the lodging industry due to the depressed economy. Results at Loews Hotels for 2009 included a pretax charge of $10 million related to a development project commitment and a pretax charge of $10 million for a loan guarantee at a managed hotel. During 2009, Loews Hotels wrote down its entire investment in the Loews Lake Las Vegas, resulting in a pretax impairment charge of $27 million. In addition, pretax income for 2008 included an $11 million gain related to an adjustment in the carrying value of a 50.0% interest in a joint venture investment. 76 Table of Contents Revenue per available room is an industry measure of the combined effect of occupancy rates and average room rates on room revenues. Other hotel operating revenues primarily include guest charges for food and beverages. Corporate and Other Corporate operations consist primarily of investment income at the Parent Company, corporate interest expenses and other corporate administrative costs. Discontinued operations include the results of operations and gain on disposal of Lorillard and the gain on the sale of Bulova in 2008. The following table summarizes the results of operations for Corporate and Other for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as presented in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Revenues: Net investment income (loss) $ 187 $ 175 $ (54 ) Investment gains 3 2 Other (3 ) (1 ) 16 Total 184 177 (36 ) Expenses: Operating 80 80 79 Interest 47 49 56 Total 127 129 135 Income (loss) before income tax 57 48 (171 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (24 ) (20 ) 55 Income (loss) from continuing operations 33 28 (116 ) Discontinued operations, net: Results of operations 341 Gain on disposal 4,362 Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 33 $ 28 $ 4,587 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues and net income in 2010 were relatively unchanged from 2009, and reflects improved investment results due to higher invested cash balances and improved performance from the Parent Companys trading portfolio, partially offset by lower yields. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues increased by $213 million and income from continuing operations increased by $144 million as compared to 2008. These increases were due primarily to improved performance of the trading portfolio. In 2008, the Company completed the sale of Bulova and disposed of its entire ownership interest in Lorillard, as further discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. The results of operations and gains on disposal of these businesses are presented as discontinued operations. Discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes a $4,287 million gain on the separation of Lorillard and a $75 million gain on the sale of Bulova. 77 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CNA Financial Cash Flows CNAs principal operating cash flow sources are premiums and investment income from its insurance subsidiaries. CNAs primary operating cash flow uses are payments for claims, policy benefits and operating expenses. For 2010, net cash used by operating activities was $89 million as compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $1,258 million for 2009. As further discussed in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 and previously referenced in this MD&A, on August 31, 2010, CNA completed the Loss Portfolio Transfer transaction. As a result of this transaction, operating cash flows were reduced by $1.9 billion related to the initial net cash settlement. Additionally, during 2010 operating cash flows were increased by $153 million related to net cash inflows primarily from sales of trading securities, because cash receipts and cash payments resulting from purchases and sales of trading securities are reported as cash flows related to operating activities. Operating cash flows were reduced by $164 million in 2009 related to net cash outflows which increased the size of the trading portfolio held at December 31, 2009. Excluding the items above, net cash generated by CNAs business operations was approximately $1,650 million and $1,422 million for 2010 and 2009. For 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,258 million as compared with $1,558 million in 2008. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was favorably impacted by increased net sales of trading securities to fund policyholders withdrawals of investment contract products issued by CNA, which are reflected as financing cash flows. The primary source of these cash flows was the indexed group annuity portion of CNAs pension deposit business which it exited in 2008. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2009 CNA resumed the use of a trading portfolio for income enhancement purposes. Operating cash flows were reduced by $164 million related to net cash outflows which increased the size of the trading portfolio held at December 31, 2009. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 was favorably impacted by decreased loss payments as compared to 2008, and tax recoveries in 2009 compared with tax payments in 2008. Cash flows from investing activities include the purchase and sale of available for sale financial instruments. Additionally, cash flows from investing activities may include the purchase and sale of businesses, land, buildings, equipment and other assets not generally held for sale. Net cash provided by investing activities was $767 million for 2010, as compared with net cash used by investing activities of $1,093 million and $1,908 million for 2009 and 2008. Cash flows from investing activities are impacted by various factors such as the anticipated payment of claims, financing activity, asset/liability management and individual security buy and sell decisions made in the normal course of portfolio management. Net cash provided by investing activities in 2010 primarily related to the sale of short term investments. The cash provided by investing activities was used to fund the initial net cash settlement with NICO referenced above. Cash flows from financing activities include proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities, outflows for dividends or repayment of debt, outlays to reacquire equity instruments, and deposits and withdrawals related to investment contract products issued by CNA. Net cash flows used by financing activities were $742 million and $120 million in 2010 and 2009. Net cash flows provided by financing activities were $347 million in 2008. Net cash used by financing activities in 2010 was primarily related to payments to redeem the outstanding 2008 Senior Preferred as discussed below, and the repayment of $150 million on a credit facility, partially offset by $495 million in net proceeds from the issuance of ten year senior notes. 2008 Senior Preferred In 2008, CNA issued, and Loews purchased, 12,500 shares of CNA non voting cumulative senior preferred stock for $1.25 billion. CNA used the majority of the proceeds to increase the statutory surplus of its principal insurance subsidiary, Continental Casualty Company (CCC), through the purchase of a $1.0 billion surplus note of CCC. As of 78 Table of Contents December 31, 2010, CNA has fully redeemed all 12,500 shares originally issued, through a series of redemptions during 2009 and 2010. The redemptions were funded by the issuance of debt and the partial repayment of the surplus note. Dividends of $76 million, $122 million and $19 million on the 2008 Senior Preferred were declared and paid for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Liquidity CNA believes that its present cash flows from operations, investing activities and financing activities are sufficient to fund its current and expected working capital and debt obligation needs and CNA does not expect this to change in the near term. Additionally, CNA has the full limit of $250 million available under a revolving credit facility. CNA has an effective automatic shelf registration statement under which it may issue debt, equity or hybrid securities. In February of 2011, CNA issued $400 million of 5.75% senior notes due August 15, 2021 in a public offering. Subsequently, CNA announced the redemption of the outstanding $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% senior notes due August 15, 2011, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and other required payments. CNA anticipates the redemption to be completed on or about March 18, 2011. Dividends On February 4, 2011, CNAs Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share, payable March 2, 2011 to shareholders of record on February 16, 2011. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of CNAs Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including CNAs earnings, financial condition, business needs, and regulatory constraints. CNA Surety On November 1, 2010, CNA announced its proposal to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of CNA Surety Corporation (CNA Surety) that it does not currently own for $22.00 per share in cash. On February 4, 2011, CNA Surety announced that CNAs proposal substantially undervalued CNA Surety; however, it would consider another proposal. CNA is evaluating CNA Suretys response and considering options that are in the best interests of CNAs stockholders. There is no assurance that the acquisition will be completed or, if so, that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will be realized. CNA owns 61% of CNA Surety which is publicly traded. Ratings Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. CNAs insurance company subsidiaries are rated by major rating agencies, and these ratings reflect the rating agencys opinion of the insurance companys financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agencys rating should be evaluated independently of any other agencys rating. One or more of these agencies could take action in the future to change the ratings of CNAs insurance subsidiaries. The table below reflects the various group ratings issued by A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Moodys and S&P for the property and casualty and life companies. The table also includes the ratings for CNA senior debt and The Continental Corporation (Continental) senior debt. Insurance Financial Strength Ratings Corporate Debt Ratings Property & Casualty Life CNA Continental CCC Group CAC Senior Debt Senior Debt A.M. Best A A bbb Not rated Moodys A3 Not rated Baa3 Baa3 S&P A Not rated BBB BBB 79 Table of Contents A.M. Best, Moodys and S&P currently maintain a stable outlook on CNA. If CNAs property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings were downgraded below current levels, its business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The severity of the impact on CNAs business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. Among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of CNAs insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. Downgrades of corporate debt ratings could result in adverse effects upon CNAs liquidity position, including negatively impacting CNAs ability to access capital markets, and increasing its financing costs. Further, additional collateralization may be required for certain settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts, as well as derivative contracts, if CNAs ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. Diamond Offshore Cash and investments totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010, compared to $778 million at December 31, 2009. In 2010, Diamond Offshore paid cash dividends totaling $734 million, consisting of aggregate regular cash dividends of $70 million and aggregate special cash dividends of $664 million. On February 2, 2011, Diamond Offshore declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share and a special dividend of $0.75 per share. Diamond Offshores cash flows from operations are impacted by the ability of its customers to weather the instability in the U.S. and global economies and restrictions in the credit market, as well as the volatility in energy prices. In general, before working for a customer with whom Diamond Offshore has not had a prior business relationship and or whose financial stability may appear uncertain, Diamond Offshore performs a credit review on that company. Based on that analysis, Diamond Offshore may require that the customer present a letter of credit, prepay or provide other credit enhancements. If a potential customer is unable to obtain an adequate level of credit, it may preclude Diamond Offshore from doing business with that potential customer. Cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 billion in 2010, compared to $1.5 billion in 2009. The decrease is primarily due to lower earnings resulting from an aggregate reduction in average utilization of, and dayrates earned by, Diamond Offshores drilling fleet, increased mobilization costs and the effect of lower deferred mobilization fees. The decrease in operating cash flows for the 2010 period was partially offset by a decrease in net cash required to satisfy working capital requirements in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a decrease in Diamond Offshores outstanding accounts receivable balances and an increase in accounts payable at December 31, 2010. On July 7, 2010, Diamond Offshore completed the sale of one of its high performance, premium jack up drilling rigs, the Ocean Shield, for a total selling price of $186 million. Diamond Offshore has budgeted approximately $320 million on capital expenditures for 2011 associated with its ongoing rig equipment replacement and enhancement programs and other corporate requirements. In addition, as of the date of this report, Diamond Offshore has spent approximately $310 million in 2011 towards the construction of two new, ultra deepwater drillships with delivery scheduled for late in the second and fourth quarters of 2013. Diamond Offshore expects to finance its 2011 capital expenditures through the use of existing cash balances or internally generated funds. From time to time, however, Diamond Offshore may also make use of its credit facility to finance capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2010, there were no loans outstanding under Diamond Offshores $285 million credit facility; however, $22 million in letters of credit were issued and outstanding under the credit facility. Diamond Offshores liquidity and capital requirements are primarily a function of its working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements. Diamond Offshore determines the amount of cash required to meet its capital commitments by evaluating the need to upgrade rigs to meet specific customer requirements, its ongoing rig equipment replacement and enhancement programs and its obligations relating to the construction of its new drillships. Diamond Offshore believes that its operating cash flows and cash reserves will be sufficient to meet both its working capital requirements and its capital commitments over the next twelve months; however, Diamond Offshore will 80 Table of Contents continue to make periodic assessments based on industry conditions and will adjust capital spending programs if required. HighMount At December 31, 2010 and 2009, cash and investments amounted to $130 million and $83 million. Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $197 million and $325 million in 2010 and 2009. Key drivers of net operating cash flows are commodity prices, production volumes and operating costs. Cash provided by investing activities in 2010 was $351 million, compared to cash used in investing activities of $174 million in 2009. Cash provided by investing activities in 2010 includes the net proceeds from the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama of approximately $500 million. The primary driver of cash used in investing activities was capital spent developing HighMounts natural gas and oil reserves. HighMount spent $104 million and $120 million on capital expenditures for its drilling program in 2010 and 2009. Funds for capital expenditures and working capital requirements are expected to be provided from existing cash balances and operating activities. HighMount used the net proceeds from the sale of its assets in Michigan and Alabama to reduce the outstanding debt under its term loans. At December 31, 2010, the outstanding borrowings under the term loans were $1.1 billion. The term loans mature in July 2012. At February 11, 2011, no borrowings were outstanding under HighMounts revolving credit facility, however, $2 million in letters of credit were issued. The available capacity under the facility was $368 million. HighMounts credit agreement governing its term loans and revolving credit facility contains financial covenants typical for these types of agreements, including a maximum debt to capitalization ratio. The credit agreement also contains customary restrictions or limitations on HighMounts ability to enter or engage in certain transactions, including transactions with affiliates. At December 31, 2010, HighMount was in compliance with all of its covenants under the credit agreement. Boardwalk Pipeline At December 31, 2010 and 2009, cash and investments amounted to $59 million and $50 million. Funds from operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 amounted to $465 million, compared to $401 million in 2009. In 2010 and 2009, Boardwalk Pipelines capital expenditures were $227 million and $847 million. Boardwalk Pipeline maintains a revolving credit facility which has aggregate lending commitments of $950 million. At December 31, 2010, Boardwalk Pipeline was in compliance with all covenant requirements under its credit facility. At February 18, 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline had $383 million in loans outstanding under its revolving credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 0.5%, resulting in an available borrowing capacity of $567 million. In January of 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline issued $325 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% senior notes due February 1, 2021. The net proceeds of the offering were used to reduce borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In February of 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline will borrow funds under this facility to pay the redemption price for $135 million of its 5.5% notes due April 1, 2013. Loews Hotels Funds from operations continue to exceed operating requirements. Cash and investments increased to $67 million at December 31, 2010 from $63 million at December 31, 2009. In March of 2010, Loews Hotels funded $10 million for a loan guarantee and $10 million related to a development project commitment. Funds from operations are expected to be sufficient to meet capital expenditures and working capital requirements. Loews Hotels has $72 million of mortgage debt coming due in 2011. Funds for this are expected to be provided from refinancing, or newly incurred debt, existing cash balances, and advances or capital contributions from us. 81 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Parent Company cash and investments, net of receivables and payables, at December 31, 2010 totaled $4.6 billion, as compared to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The increase in net cash and investments is primarily due to the receipt of $720 million in interest and dividends from our subsidiaries, the receipt of $500 million in August of 2010 and $500 million in December of 2010 from the redemption of Senior Preferred stock by CNA, and proceeds of $333 million in February of 2010 from the sale of 11.5 million Boardwalk Pipeline common units. These cash inflows were partially offset by the purchase of treasury stock for $405 million, as discussed below, and $105 million of dividends paid to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, there were 414,546,107 shares of Loews common stock outstanding. Depending on market and other conditions, we may purchase shares of our and our subsidiaries outstanding common stock in the open market or otherwise. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we purchased 10,964,200 shares of Loews common stock at an aggregate cost of $405 million. During January 2011, we purchased an additional 912,100 shares of Loews common stock at aggregate cost of $36 million. We have an effective Registration Statement on Form S 3 registering the future sale of an unlimited amount of our debt and equity securities. We continue to pursue conservative financial strategies while seeking opportunities for responsible growth. These include the expansion of existing businesses, full or partial acquisitions and dispositions, and opportunities for efficiencies and economies of scale. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Our contractual payment obligations are as follows: Payments Due by Period December 31, 2010 Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years (In millions) Debt (a) $ 13,442 $ 1,156 $ 3,195 $ 2,401 $ 6,690 Operating leases 321 58 104 66 93 Claim and claim expense reserves (b) 27,238 5,769 7,850 4,126 9,493 Future policy benefits reserves (c) 13,101 173 602 320 12,006 Policyholder funds reserves (c) 137 23 13 5 96 Rig construction contracts (d) 515 155 360 Purchase and other obligations 181 107 33 27 14 Total (e) $ 54,935 $ 7,441 $ 12,157 $ 6,945 $ 28,392 (a) Includes estimated future interest payments. (b) Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are not discounted and represent CNAs estimate of the amount and timing of the ultimate settlement and administration of gross claims based on its assessment of facts and circumstances known as of December 31, 2010. See the Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties section of this MD&A for further information. (c) Future policy benefits and policyholder funds reserves are not discounted and represent CNAs estimate of the ultimate amount and timing of the settlement of benefits based on its assessment of facts and circumstances known as of December 31, 2010. Future policy benefit reserves of $747 million and policyholder fund reserves of $37 million related to business which has been 100% ceded to unaffiliated parties in connection with the sale of CNAs individual life business in 2004 are not included. Additional information on future policy benefits and policyholder funds reserves is included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 82 Table of Contents (d) In January of 2011, Diamond Offshore entered into a contract for the construction of a second ultra deepwater drillship. The first installment of the contract price of $155 million was paid in February of 2011. The second installment of $360 million is payable in 2013 upon delivery and acceptance of the drillship. (e) Does not include expected contribution of approximately $96 million to the Companys pension and postretirement plans in 2011. Further information on our commitments, contingencies and guarantees is provided in Notes 1, 3, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 19 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. INVESTMENTS Investment activities of non insurance companies include investments in fixed income securities, equity securities including short sales, derivative instruments and short term investments, and are carried at fair value. Securities that are considered part of our trading portfolio, short sales and certain derivative instruments are marked to market and reported as Net investment income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We enter into short sales and invest in certain derivative instruments that are used for asset and liability management activities, income enhancements to our portfolio management strategy and to benefit from anticipated future movements in the underlying markets. If such movements do not occur as anticipated, then significant losses may occur. Monitoring procedures include senior management review of daily detailed reports of existing positions and valuation fluctuations to ensure that open positions are consistent with our portfolio strategy. Credit exposure associated with non performance by the counterparties to derivative instruments is generally limited to the uncollateralized change in fair value of the derivative instruments recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We mitigate the risk of non performance by monitoring the creditworthiness of counterparties and diversifying derivatives to multiple counterparties. We occasionally require collateral from our derivative investment counterparties depending on the amount of the exposure and the credit rating of the counterparty. We do not believe that any of the derivative instruments we use are unusually complex, nor do the use of these instruments, in our opinion, result in a higher degree of risk. Please read Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk and Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 for additional information with respect to derivative instruments, including recognized gains and losses on these instruments. Insurance CNA maintains a large portfolio of fixed maturity and equity securities, including large amounts of corporate and government issued debt securities, residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, and other asset backed securities and investments in limited partnerships which pursue a variety of long and short investment strategies across a broad array of asset classes. CNAs investment portfolio supports its obligation to pay future insurance claims and provides investment returns which are an important part of CNAs overall profitability. 83 Table of Contents Net Investment Income The significant components of CNAs net investment income are presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Fixed maturity securities $ 2,051 $ 1,941 $ 1,984 Short term investments 15 36 115 Limited partnerships 249 315 (379) Equity securities 32 49 80 Trading portfolio 13 23 (149) Other 10 6 19 Gross investment income 2,370 2,370 1,670 Investment expenses (54 ) (50 ) (51) Net investment income $ 2,316 $ 2,320 $ 1,619 Net investment income decreased $4 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This decrease was primarily driven by less favorable income from CNAs limited partnership investments, substantially offset by an investment shift during 2010 from lower yielding short term and tax exempt securities to higher yielding taxable fixed maturity securities. The unfavorable year over year comparison in income from CNAs limited partnership investments was driven by significant returns from CNAs limited partnership investments in 2009. Limited partnership investments generally present greater market volatility, higher illiquidity and greater risk than fixed income investments. The limited partnership investments are managed as an overall portfolio in an effort to mitigate the greater levels of volatility, illiquidity and risk that are present in the individual partnership investments. Net investment income increased $701 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. Excluding indexed group annuity trading portfolio losses of $146 million in 2008, net investment income increased $555 million primarily driven by improved results from limited partnership investments. This increase was partially offset by the impact of lower risk free and short term interest rates. Limited partnership income in 2009 was driven by improved performance across many limited partnerships and included individual partnership performance that ranged from a positive $120 million to a negative $59 million. The indexed group annuity trading portfolio losses in 2008 were substantially offset by a corresponding decrease in the policyholders funds reserves supported by the trading portfolio, which was included in Insurance claims and policyholders benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Income. CNA exited the indexed group annuity business in 2008. The fixed maturity investment portfolio and short term investments provided a pretax effective income yield of 5.3%, 5.1% and 5.6% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. Tax exempt municipal bonds generated $263 million, $381 million and $360 million of net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 84 Table of Contents Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The components of CNAs net realized investment results are presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Realized investment gains (losses): Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury and obligations of government agencies $ 3 $ (53 ) $ 235 Asset backed 44 (778 ) (476) States, municipalities and political subdivisions (128 ) (20 ) 53 Foreign government 2 38 7 Corporate and other bonds 164 (345 ) (650) Redeemable preferred stock 7 (9 ) Total fixed maturity securities 92 (1,167 ) (831) Equity securities (2 ) 243 (490) Derivative securities (1 ) 51 (19) Short term investments 7 10 34 Other (10 ) 6 9 Total realized investment gains (losses) 86 (857 ) (1,297) Income tax (expense) benefit (36 ) 296 456 Net realized investment gains (losses) 50 (561 ) (841) Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) 56 85 Net realized investment gains (losses) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 46 $ (505 ) $ (756) Net realized investment results improved $551 million for 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by significantly lower other than temporary impairment (OTTI) losses recognized in earnings. Further information on CNAs realized gains and losses, including CNAs OTTI losses and impairment decision process, is set forth in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance, which amended the OTTI loss model for fixed maturity securities, as discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Net realized investment losses decreased $251 million for 2009 as compared with 2008, driven by a realized investment gain related to a common stock holding and decreased OTTI losses recognized in earnings. Included in the 2009 net realized gains for equity securities was a pretax gain of $370 million related to the sale of CNAs holdings of Verisk Analytics Inc., which began trading on October 7, 2009 after an initial public offering. Since CNAs cost basis in this position was zero, the entire amount was recognized as a pretax realized investment gain. CNAs fixed maturity portfolio consists primarily of high quality bonds, 90.6% and 90.3% of which were rated as investment grade (rated BBB or higher) at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The classification between investment grade and non investment grade is based on a ratings methodology that takes into account ratings from the two major providers, S&P and Moodys, in that order of preference. If a security is not rated by these providers, CNA formulates an internal rating. For securities with credit support from third party guarantees, the rating reflects the greater of the underlying rating of the issuer or the insured rating. 85 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the ratings of CNAs fixed maturity portfolio at carrying value: December 31 2010 2009 (In millions of dollars) U.S. Government and Agencies $ 3,534 9.4 % $ 3,705 10.4 % AAA rated 4,419 11.8 5,855 16.5 AA and A rated 15,665 41.7 12,464 35.0 BBB rated 10,425 27.7 10,122 28.4 Non investment grade 3,534 9.4 3,466 9.7 Total $ 37,577 100.0 % $ 35,612 100.0 % Non investment grade fixed maturity securities, as presented in the table below, include high yield securities rated below BBB by bond rating agencies and other unrated securities that, according to CNAs analysis, are below investment grade. Non investment grade securities generally involve a greater degree of risk than investment grade securities. The amortized cost of CNAs non investment grade fixed maturity bond portfolio was $3,490 million and $3,637 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The following table summarizes the ratings of this portfolio at carrying value. December 31 2010 2009 (In millions of dollars) BB $ 1,492 42.2 % $ 1,352 39.0 % B 1,163 32.9 1,255 36.2 CCC C 801 22.7 761 22.0 D 78 2.2 98 2.8 Total $ 3,534 100.0 % $ 3,466 100.0 % Included within the fixed maturity portfolio are securities that contain credit support from third party guarantees from mono line insurers. At December 31, 2010, $428 million of the carrying value of the fixed maturity portfolio had a third party guarantee that increased the underlying average rating of those securities from AA to AA+. Of this amount, over 94.0% was within the states, municipalities and political subdivisions securities sector. This third party credit support on states, municipalities and political subdivisions securities is provided by two mono line insurers, the largest exposure based on fair value being Assured Guaranty Ltd. at more than 99.0%. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 98.0% and 99.0% of the fixed maturity portfolio was issued by U.S. Government and Agencies or was rated by S&P or Moodys. The remaining bonds were rated by other rating agencies or internally. The carrying value of fixed maturity and equity securities that trade in illiquid private placement markets at December 31, 2010 was $340 million, which represents approximately 0.8% of CNAs total investment portfolio. These securities were in a net unrealized gain position of $15 million at December 31, 2010. The gross unrealized loss on available for sale fixed maturity securities was $795 million at December 31, 2010. The following table provides the maturity profile for these available for sale fixed maturity securities. Securities not due at a single date are allocated based on weighted average life. Percent ofFair Value Percent ofUnrealizedLoss Due in one year or less 5.0 % 4.0 % Due after one year through five years 19.0 11.0 Due after five years through ten years 26.0 24.0 Due after ten years 50.0 61.0 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 86 Table of Contents Duration A primary objective in the management of the fixed maturity and equity portfolios is to optimize return relative to underlying liabilities and respective liquidity needs. CNAs views on the current interest rate environment, tax regulations, asset class valuations, specific security issuer and broader industry segment conditions, and the domestic and global economic conditions, are some of the factors that enter into an investment decision. CNA also continually monitors exposure to issuers of securities held and broader industry sector exposures and may from time to time adjust such exposures based on its views of a specific issuer or industry sector. A further consideration in the management of the investment portfolio is the characteristics of the underlying liabilities and the ability to align the duration of the portfolio to those liabilities to meet future liquidity needs, minimize interest rate risk and maintain a level of income sufficient to support the underlying insurance liabilities. For portfolios where future liability cash flows are determinable and typically long term in nature, CNA segregates investments for asset/liability management purposes. The segregated investments support liabilities primarily in the Life & Group Non Core segment including annuities, structured benefit settlements and long term care products. The effective durations of fixed maturity securities, short term investments, non redeemable preferred stocks and interest rate derivatives are presented in the table below. Short term investments are net of securities lending collateral, if any, and accounts payable and receivable amounts for securities purchased and sold, but not yet settled. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Fair Value Effective Duration(Years) Fair Value Effective Duration(Years) (In millions of dollars) Segregated investments $ 11,516 10.9 $ 10,376 11.2 Other interest sensitive investments 28,405 4.6 29,665 4.0 Total $ 39,921 6.4 $ 40,041 5.8 The investment portfolio is periodically analyzed for changes in duration and related price change risk. Additionally, CNA periodically reviews the sensitivity of the portfolio to the level of foreign exchange rates and other factors that contribute to market price changes. A summary of these risks and specific analysis on changes is included in Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included herein. Short Term Investments The carrying value of the components of CNAs short term investment portfolio is presented in the following table: December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Short term investments available for sale: Commercial paper $ 686 $ 185 U.S. Treasury securities 903 3,025 Money market funds 94 179 Other 532 560 Total short term investments $ 2,215 $ 3,949 87 Table of Contents Separate Accounts The following table summarizes the bond ratings of the investments, at estimated fair value, supporting CNAs separate account products which guarantee principal and a minimum rate of interest, for which additional amounts may be recorded in Policyholders funds should the aggregate contract value exceed the fair value of the related assets supporting the business at any point in time. December 31 2010 2009 (In millions of dollars) U.S. Government Agencies $ 53 13.1 % $ 67 17.6 % AAA rated 18 4.5 17 4.5 AA and A rated 214 52.8 176 46.3 BBB rated 99 24.4 93 24.5 Non investment grade 21 5.2 27 7.1 Total $ 405 100.0 % $ 380 100.0 % At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 97.0% of the separate account portfolio was issued by U.S. Government and affiliated agencies or was rated by S&P or Moodys. The remaining bonds were rated by other rating agencies or internally. Asset backed Exposure The following table provides detail of the Companys exposure to asset backed and sub prime mortgage related securities: Security Type December 31, 2010 RMBS (a) CMBS (b) OtherABS (c) Total (In millions) U.S. Government Agencies $ 3,367 $ 30 $ 3,397 AAA 1,351 194 $ 551 2,096 AA 206 257 154 617 A 190 246 26 462 BBB 228 116 19 363 Non investment grade and equity tranches 927 150 50 1,127 Total fair value $ 6,269 $ 993 $ 800 $ 8,062 Total amortized cost $ 6,442 $ 994 $ 790 $ 8,226 Sub prime (included above) Fair value $ 483 $ 483 Amortized cost 527 527 Alt A (included above) Fair value $ 632 $ 632 Amortized cost 662 662 (a) Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) (b) Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) (c) Other asset backed securities (Other ABS) The exposure to sub prime residential mortgage (sub prime) collateral and Alternative A residential mortgages that have lower than normal standards of loan documentation (Alt A) collateral is measured by the original deal structure. Of the securities with sub prime exposure, approximately 74.0% were rated investment grade, while 87.0% of the Alt A 88 Table of Contents securities were rated investment grade. At December 31, 2010, $6 million of the carrying value of the sub prime and Alt A securities carried a third party guarantee. Pretax OTTI losses of $27 million for securities with sub prime and Alt A exposure were included in the $77 million of pretax OTTI losses related to asset backed securities recognized in earnings on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2010. If additional deterioration in the underlying collateral occurs beyond the Companys current expectations, additional OTTI losses may be recognized in earnings. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 for additional information related to unrealized losses on asset backed securities. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS UPDATE For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please read Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this Report as well as some statements in periodic press releases and some oral statements made by our officials and our subsidiaries during presentations about us, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain the words expect, intend, plan, anticipate, estimate, believe, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. In addition, any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by management are also forward looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: Risks and uncertainties primarily affecting us and our insurance subsidiaries the risks and uncertainties associated with CNAs loss reserves, as outlined under Results of Operations by Business Segment CNA Financial Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties in this MD&A, including the sufficiency of the reserves and the possibility for future increases; the risk that the other parties to the transaction in which, subject to certain limitations, CNA ceded its legacy A&EP liabilities will not fully perform their obligations to CNA, the uncertainty in estimating loss reserves for A&EP liabilities and the possible continued exposure of CNA to liabilities for A&EP claims that are not covered under the terms of the transaction; the performance of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts with CNA; the impact of competitive products, policies and pricing and the competitive environment in which CNA operates, including changes in CNAs book of business; product and policy availability and demand and market responses, including the level of ability to obtain rate increases and decline or non renew under priced accounts, to achieve premium targets and profitability and to realize growth and retention estimates; general economic and business conditions, including recessionary conditions that may decrease the size and number of CNAs insurance customers and create additional losses to CNAs lines of business, especially those that provide management and professional liability insurance, as well as surety bonds, to businesses engaged in real estate, financial services and professional services, and inflationary pressures on medical care costs, construction costs and other economic sectors that increase the severity of claims; 89 Table of Contents conditions in the capital and credit markets, including continuing uncertainty and instability in these markets, as well as the overall economy, and their impact on the returns, types, liquidity and valuation of CNAs investments; conditions in the capital and credit markets that may limit CNAs ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms, as well as restrictions on the ability or willingness of the Company to provide additional capital support to CNA; the possibility of changes in CNAs ratings by ratings agencies, including the inability to access certain markets or distribution channels, and the required collateralization of future payment obligations as a result of such changes, and changes in rating agency policies and practices; regulatory limitations, impositions and restrictions upon CNA, including the effects of assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds, other mandatory pooling arrangements and future assessments levied on insurance companies as well as the new federal financial regulatory reform of the insurance industry established by the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; increased operating costs and underwriting losses arising from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, as well as health care reform proposals at the state level; regulatory limitations and restrictions, including limitations upon CNAs ability to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries imposed by state regulatory agencies and minimum risk based capital standards established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners; weather and other natural physical events, including the severity and frequency of storms, hail, snowfall and other winter conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as climate change, including effects on weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain and snow; regulatory requirements imposed by coastal state regulators in the wake of hurricanes or other natural disasters, including limitations on the ability to exit markets or to non renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies, as well as mandatory assessments to fund any shortfalls arising from the inability of quasi governmental insurers to pay claims; man made disasters, including the possible occurrence of terrorist attacks and the effect of the absence or insufficiency of applicable terrorism legislation on coverages; the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity or frequency of potential terrorist events, as well as the uncertainty as to CNAs ability to contain its terrorism exposure effectively; and the occurrence of epidemics. Risks and uncertainties primarily affecting us and our energy subsidiaries the impact of changes in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and oil and gas price fluctuations on E&P activity, including possible write downs of the carrying value of natural gas and NGL properties and impairments of goodwill and reduced demand for offshore drilling services; the continuing effects of the Macondo well blowout, including, without limitation, the impact on drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, related delays in permitting activities and related regulations and market developments; government policies regarding exploration and development of oil and gas reserves; market conditions in the offshore oil and gas drilling industry, including utilization levels and dayrates; 90 Table of Contents timing and duration of required regulatory inspections for offshore oil and gas drilling rigs; the risk of physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; the availability and cost of insurance; the impact of new pipelines or new gas supply sources on competition and basis spreads on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems, which may impact its ability to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts and to sell short term capacity on its pipelines; the impact of current and future environmental laws and regulations and exposure to environmental liabilities including matters related to global climate change; regulatory issues affecting natural gas transmission, including ratemaking and other proceedings particularly affecting our gas transmission subsidiaries; the timing, cost, scope and financial performance of Boardwalk Pipelines recent and future growth projects, including the ability to operate its expansion project pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures; and the development of additional natural gas reserves and changes in reserve estimates. Risks and uncertainties affecting us and our subsidiaries generally general economic and business conditions; changes in domestic and foreign political, social and economic conditions, including developing social and political unrest in Egypt and other parts of the Middle East; the impact of the global war on terrorism, current and future hostilities in the Middle East and elsewhere and future acts of terrorism; potential changes in accounting policies by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission or regulatory agencies for any of our subsidiaries industries which may cause us or our subsidiaries to revise their financial accounting and or disclosures in the future, and which may change the way analysts measure our and our subsidiaries business or financial performance; the impact of regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, judicial rulings and jury verdicts; the results of financing efforts; by us and our subsidiaries, including any additional investments by us in our subsidiaries; the ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations to us and our subsidiaries; the consummation of contemplated transactions and agreements; the successful integration, transition and management of acquired businesses; the outcome of pending or future litigation, including any tobacco related suits to which we are or may become a party; possible casualty losses; the availability of indemnification by Lorillard and its subsidiaries for any tobacco related liabilities that we may incur as a result of tobacco related lawsuits or otherwise, as provided in the Separation Agreement; and 91 Table of Contents potential future asset impairments. Developments in any of these or other areas of risk and uncertainty, which are more fully described elsewhere in this Report and our other filings with the SEC, could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be anticipated or projected. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in our expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward looking statement is based. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We are a large diversified holding company. As such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at December 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. We may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. Interest Rate Risk We have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. We monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes (inclusive of credit spread) by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. The Company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each securitys yield. Duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. Convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. The duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. The analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. The evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. The analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. The sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on December 31, 2010 and 2009 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. The interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. Accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. Further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. 92 Table of Contents Our debt is denominated in U.S. Dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. The impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $425 million and $429 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $464 million at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. HighMount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $1.1 billion to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in LIBOR. These swaps effectively fix the interest rate at 5.7%. Gains or losses from derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction. Equity Price Risk We have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. Equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. Equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25.0% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at December 31, 2010 and 2009, with all other variables held constant. A model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the Company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. The result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25.0%. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. We have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. This exposure is mitigated by our asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. Our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds, Brazilian reais and the European Monetary Unit. The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20.0% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar from their levels at December 31, 2010 and 2009, with all other variables held constant. Commodity Price Risk We have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. Commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. Commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20.0% from their levels at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The impact of a change in commodity prices on the Companys non trading commodity based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Although nearly all of the Companys customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the Company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. Boardwalk Pipeline has established credit policies in the pipeline tariffs which are intended to minimize credit risk in accordance with FERC policies and actively monitors this portion of its business. Boardwalk Pipelines credit exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by Boardwalk Pipeline to them, generally under PAL and no notice services. Natural gas price volatility can materially increase credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. If any significant customer of Boardwalk Pipeline should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe to Boardwalk Pipeline, this could have a material adverse effect on Boardwalk Pipelines business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of gas loaned out by Boardwalk Pipeline or owed to Boardwalk Pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 13.0 trillion British thermal units (TBtu). Assuming an average market price during December of 2010 of $4.21 per million British thermal unit (MMBtu), the market value of this gas at December 31, 2010, would have been approximately $55 million. As of December 31, 2009, the amount of gas loaned out by Boardwalk Pipeline or owed to Boardwalk Pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 14.9 TBtu. Assuming an average market price during December 2009 of $5.36 per MMBtu, the market value of this gas at December 31, 2009, would have been approximately $80 million. 93 Table of Contents The following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. Trading portfolio: Category of risk exposure: Fair Value Asset (Liability) Market Risk December 31 2010 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Equity prices (1): Equity securities long $ 616 $ 318 $ (154 ) $ (79 ) short (68 ) (78 ) 17 19 Options purchased 30 45 3 7 written (10 ) (9 ) 4 (7 ) Interest rate (2): Fixed maturities long 231 377 (10 ) (19 ) short (250 ) 5 Short term investments 3,118 1,990 Other derivatives 19 Note: The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. Adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. Other than trading portfolio: Category of risk exposure: Fair Value Asset (Liability) Market Risk December 31 2010 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Equity prices (1): Equity securities: General accounts (a) $ 440 $ 644 $ (110 ) $ (161 ) Separate accounts 22 32 (5 ) (8 ) Limited partnership investments 2,814 1,996 (256 ) (200 ) Interest rate (2): Fixed maturities (a) 37,583 35,439 (2,417 ) (2,082 ) Short term investments (a) 3,962 5,221 (7 ) (12 ) Other invested assets 113 4 (7 ) Interest rate swaps and other (b) (76 ) (135 ) 17 45 Other derivative securities (1 ) (11 ) Separate accounts (a): Fixed maturities 405 380 (18 ) (15 ) Short term investments 18 6 Foreign exchange (3): Forwards short 4 3 (26 ) (21 ) Commodities (4): Forwards short (b) 47 11 (85 ) (134 ) Options written 2 (1 ) Note: The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar of 20.0% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20.0%. (a) Certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. An assumed 20.0% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(362) and $(330) at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (b) The market risk at December 31, 2010 and 2009 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 94 Table of Contents 
 
