Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is comprised of the following sections: PageNo. Overview Consolidated Financial Results 45 Parent Company Structure 46 Critical Accounting Estimates 46 Results of Operations by Business Segment 49 CNA Financial 49 Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties 49 CNA Specialty 58 CNA Commercial 60 Life & Group Non Core 62 Other Insurance 64 Diamond Offshore 65 HighMount 72 Boardwalk Pipeline 75 Loews Hotels 77 Corporate and Other 78 Liquidity and Capital Resources 79 CNA Financial 79 Diamond Offshore 81 HighMount 82 Boardwalk Pipeline 82 Loews Hotels 83 Corporate and Other 84 Contractual Obligations 84 Investments 85 Accounting Standards Update 89 Forward Looking Statements 89 44 Table of Contents OVERVIEW We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation (CNA), a 90% owned subsidiary); operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (Diamond Offshore), a 50.4% owned subsidiary); exploration, production and marketing of natural gas and oil (including condensate and natural gas liquids), (HighMount Exploration & Production LLC (HighMount), a wholly owned subsidiary); interstate transportation and storage of natural gas (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (Boardwalk Pipeline), a 61% owned subsidiary); and operation of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (Loews Hotels), a wholly owned subsidiary). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to Loews Corporation, the Company, Parent Company, we, our, us or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.1 billion, or $2.63 per share, compared to net income of $1.3 billion, or $3.07 per share, in 2010. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $268 million, or $0.67 per share, compared to net income of $466 million, or $1.12 per share, in the 2010 fourth quarter. Net income and earnings per share information attributable to Loews Corporation is summarized in the table below. Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 (In millions, except per share data) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation: Income from continuing operations (a) $ 1,064 $ 1,307 Discontinued operations, net (a) (19 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 1,064 $ 1,288 Net income per share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.63 $ 3.11 Discontinued operations, net (0.04 ) Net income per share $ 2.63 $ 3.07 (a) Includes losses of $309 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in continuing operations and $19 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 related to CNAs Loss Portfolio Transfer transaction as discussed elsewhere in this MD&A. Excluding the prior year charge of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) related to the Loss Portfolio Transfer transaction, net income decreased $552 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to lower investment income from limited partnership results at CNA in 2011, higher catastrophe losses, a lower level of net prior year development recorded by CNA in 2011 than in 2010 and a $104 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) increase in insurance reserves for CNAs payout annuity business. The decrease in net income also reflected reduced results from the parent company trading portfolio due to lower performance of equity investments. 45 Table of Contents Net income also included net investment losses of $31 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in 2011 as compared to net investment gains of $27 million in the prior year. Net investment losses in 2011 were primarily driven by lower gains on sales of securities partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment losses at CNA. Book value per common share increased to $47.49 at December 31, 2011 as compared to $44.51 at December 31, 2010. Parent Company Structure We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. We rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to our shareholders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of CNA, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies (see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8) and compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our Consolidated Financial Statements as their application places the most significant demands on our judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of judgments, actual results could differ significantly from estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or equity. Insurance Reserves Insurance reserves are established for both short and long duration insurance contracts. Short duration contracts are primarily related to property and casualty insurance policies where the reserving process is based on actuarial estimates of the amount of loss, including amounts for known and unknown claims. Long duration contracts include long term care products and payout annuity contracts and are estimated using actuarial estimates about mortality, morbidity and persistency as well as assumptions about expected investment returns. The reserve for unearned premiums on property and casualty and accident and health contracts represents the portion of premiums written related to the unexpired terms of coverage. The inherent risks associated with the reserving process are discussed in the Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties section below. Reinsurance and Other Receivables An exposure exists with respect to the collectibility of property and casualty and life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities CNA has ceded under reinsurance agreements. An allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance receivables is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency, CNAs past experience and current economic conditions. Further information on CNAs reinsurance receivables is included in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 46 Table of Contents Additionally, an exposure exists with respect to amounts due from customers on other receivables. An allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due currently or in the future, managements experience and current economic conditions. If actual experience differs from the estimates made by management in determining the allowances for doubtful accounts on reinsurance and other receivables, net receivables as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets may not be collected. Therefore, our results of operations and or equity could be materially adversely impacted. Litigation We and our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings that have arisen during the ordinary course of business. We evaluate the facts and circumstances of each situation, and when management determines it necessary, a liability is estimated and recorded. Please read Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Valuation of Investments and Impairment of Securities We classify fixed maturity securities and equity securities as either available for sale or trading which are both carried at fair value. Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date, the determination of which requires us to make a significant number of assumptions and judgments. Securities with the greatest level of subjectivity around valuation are those that rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs represent our own judgment and are based on assumptions consistent with what we believe other market participants would use to price such securities. Given the susceptibility of financial markets to severe events as well as the level of uncertainty related to our assumptions and judgments, it is possible that changes in fair value estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and or equity. Further information on fair value measurements is included in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. CNAs investment portfolio is subject to market declines below amortized cost that may be other than temporary and therefore result in the recognition of impairment losses in earnings. Factors considered in the determination of whether or not a decline is other than temporary include a current intention or need to sell the security or an indication that a credit loss exists. Significant judgment exists regarding the evaluation of the financial condition and expected near term and long term prospects of the issuer, the relevant industry conditions and trends, and whether CNA expects to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. CNA has an Impairment Committee which reviews the investment portfolio on at least a quarterly basis, with ongoing analysis as new information becomes available. Further information on CNAs process for evaluating impairments is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Long Term Care Products and Payout Annuity Contracts Future policy benefit reserves for CNAs long term care products and payout annuity contracts and deferred acquisition costs for CNAs long term care products are based on certain assumptions including morbidity, mortality, policy persistency and discount rates, which are impacted by expected investment yields. The recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and the adequacy of the reserves are contingent on actual experience related to these key assumptions, which were generally established at time of issue. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition costs may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring CNA to add to reserves. Therefore, our results of operations and or equity could be adversely impacted. The inherent risks associated with the reserving process are discussed in the Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties section below. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. 47 Table of Contents In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The yield curve was applied to expected future retirement plan payments to adjust the discount rate to reflect the cash flow characteristics of the plans. The yield curves and indices evaluated in the selection of the discount rate are comprised of high quality corporate bonds that are rated AA by an accepted rating agency. Further information on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations is included in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Valuation of HighMounts Proved Reserves HighMount follows the full cost method of accounting for natural gas and oil exploration and production activities. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depleted using the units of production method. The depletable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved natural gas and oil reserves, as well as capitalized asset retirement costs, net of projected salvage values. Capitalized costs in the depletable base are subject to a ceiling test. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling, the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved natural gas and oil reserves, using calculated average prices adjusted for any cash flow hedges in place. If net capitalized costs exceed the ceiling test at the end of any quarterly period, then a write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. A write down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and oil prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. At March 31, 2009, total capitalized costs exceeded the ceiling and HighMount recognized non cash impairment charges of $1.0 billion ($660 million after tax) related to the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties, as discussed further in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. In addition, gains or losses on the sale or other disposition of natural gas and oil properties are not recognized unless the gain or loss would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. HighMounts estimate of proved reserves requires a high degree of judgment and is dependent on factors such as historical data, engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities, estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves, and estimates of future production from the proved reserves. HighMounts estimated proved reserves are based upon studies for each of its properties prepared by HighMount staff engineers. Calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines. Determination of proved reserves is based on, among other things, (i) a pricing mechanism for oil and gas reserves which uses an average 12 month price; (ii) a limitation on the classification of reserves as proved undeveloped to locations scheduled to be drilled within five years; and (iii) a 10% discount factor used in calculating discounted future net cash flows. The process to estimate reserves is imprecise, and estimates are subject to revision. If there is a significant variance in any of HighMounts estimates or assumptions in the future and revisions to the value of HighMounts proved reserves are necessary, related depletion expense and the calculation of the ceiling test would be affected and recognition of natural gas and oil property impairments could occur. Given the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, it is possible that HighMounts estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves that is used to calculate the ceiling could materially change in the near term. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company uses a probability weighted cash flow analysis to test property and equipment for impairment based on relevant market data. If an asset is determined to be impaired, a loss is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the fair value of the asset. Managements cash flow assumptions are an inherent part of our asset impairment evaluation and the use of different assumptions could produce results that differ from the reported amounts. 48 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill is required to be evaluated on an annual basis and whenever, in managements judgment, there is a significant change in circumstances that would be considered a triggering event. Management must apply judgment in assessing qualitatively whether events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Factors such as a reporting units planned future operating results, long term growth outlook and industry and market conditions are considered. Judgment is also applied in determining the estimated fair value of reporting units assets and liabilities for purposes of performing quantitative goodwill impairment tests. Management uses all available information to make these fair value determinations, including the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates commensurate with the risks involved in the assets and observed market multiples. At December 31, 2011, HighMount had $584 million of goodwill recorded in conjunction with its acquisition of certain exploration and production assets. HighMount performs its annual goodwill impairment test each April 30th and no impairment was determined at April 30, 2011. As a result of low natural gas prices and the potential ceiling test impairment discussed above, HighMount performed a goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2011. No impairment charge was required based on that test. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the financial statement and tax return bases of assets and liabilities. Any resulting future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not, and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes may not be realized. The assessment of the need for a valuation allowance requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future earnings, reversal of existing temporary differences and available tax planning strategies. If actual experience differs from these estimates and assumptions, the recorded deferred tax asset may not be fully realized resulting in an increase to income tax expense in our results of operations. In addition, the ability to record deferred tax assets in the future could be limited resulting in a higher effective tax rate in that future period. The Company has not established deferred tax liabilities for certain of its foreign earnings as it intends to indefinitely reinvest those earnings to finance foreign activities. However, if these earnings become subject to U.S. federal tax, any required provision could have a material impact on our financial results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT Unless the context otherwise requires, references to net operating income (loss), net realized investment results and net income (loss) reflect amounts attributable to Loews Corporation. CNA Financial Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties Property and Casualty Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves CNA maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for claims that have been reported but not yet settled (case reserves) and claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are reflected as liabilities and are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets under the heading Insurance Reserves. Adjustments to prior year reserve estimates, if necessary, are reflected in results of operations in the period that the need for such adjustments is determined. The carried case and IBNR reserves as of each balance sheet date are provided in the Segment Results section of this MD&A and in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. The level of reserves CNA maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on CNAs assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. Reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that CNA derives, generally 49 Table of Contents utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. CNA is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. These issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on CNAs business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: the effects of worldwide economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of certain claims including both directors and officers (D&O) and errors and omissions (E&O) insurance claims related to corporate failures, as well as other coverages; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. The impact of these and other unforeseen emerging or potential claims and coverage issues is difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect the adequacy of CNAs claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and could lead to future reserve additions. CNAs property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have actual and potential exposures related to asbestos and environmental pollution (A&EP) claims. CNAs experience has been that establishing reserves for casualty coverages relating to A&EP claims and the related claim adjustment expenses are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. Additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment reserves for A&EP. As a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported A&EP claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. To mitigate the risks posed by CNAs exposure to A&EP claims and claim adjustment expenses, as further discussed in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, on August 31, 2010, CNA completed a transaction with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., under which substantially all of CNAs legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to NICO effective January 1, 2010. Establishing Reserve Estimates In developing claim and claim adjustment expense (loss or losses) reserve estimates, CNAs actuaries perform detailed reserve analyses that are staggered throughout the year. The data is organized at a product level. A product can be a line of business covering a subset of insureds such as commercial automobile liability for small or middle market customers, it can encompass several lines of business provided to a specific set of customers such as dentists, or it can be a particular type of claim such as construction defect. Every product is analyzed at least once during the year, with the exception of certain run off products which are analyzed on a periodic basis. The analyses generally review losses gross of ceded reinsurance and apply the ceded reinsurance terms to the gross estimates to establish estimates net of reinsurance. In addition to the detailed analyses, CNA reviews actual loss emergence for all products each quarter. The detailed analyses use a variety of generally accepted actuarial methods and techniques to produce a number of estimates of ultimate loss. CNAs actuaries determine a point estimate of ultimate loss by reviewing the various estimates and assigning weight to each estimate given the characteristics of the product being reviewed. The reserve estimate is the difference between the estimated ultimate loss and the losses paid to date. The difference between the estimated ultimate loss and the case incurred loss (paid loss plus case reserve) is IBNR. IBNR calculated as such includes a provision for development on known cases (supplemental development) as well as a provision for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported (pure IBNR). Most of CNAs business can be characterized as long tail. For long tail business, it will generally be several years between the time the business is written and the time when all claims are settled. CNAs long tail exposures include 50 Table of Contents commercial automobile liability, workers compensation, general liability, medical, professional liability, other professional liability coverages, assumed reinsurance run off and products liability. Short tail exposures include property, commercial automobile physical damage, marine and warranty. CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial contain both long tail and short tail exposures. Other Insurance contains long tail exposures. Various methods are used to project ultimate loss for both long tail and short tail exposures including, but not limited to, the following: paid development; incurred development; loss ratio; Bornhuetter Ferguson using paid loss; Bornhuetter Ferguson using incurred loss; frequency times severity; and stochastic modeling. The paid development method estimates ultimate losses by reviewing paid loss patterns and applying them to accident years with further expected changes in paid loss. Selection of the paid loss pattern requires consideration of several factors including the impact of inflation on claims costs, the rate at which claims professionals make claim payments and close claims, the impact of judicial decisions, the impact of underwriting changes, the impact of large claim payments and other factors. Claim cost inflation itself requires evaluation of changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, changes in the cost of medical care, changes in the cost of wage replacement, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Because this method assumes that losses are paid at a consistent rate, changes in any of these factors can impact the results. Since the method does not rely on case reserves, it is not directly influenced by changes in the adequacy of case reserves. For many products, paid loss data for recent periods may be too immature or erratic for accurate predictions. This situation often exists for long tail exposures. In addition, changes in the factors described above may result in inconsistent payment patterns. Finally, estimating the paid loss pattern subsequent to the most mature point available in the data analyzed often involves considerable uncertainty for long tail products such as workers compensation. The incurred development method is similar to the paid development method, but it uses case incurred losses instead of paid losses. Since the method uses more data (case reserves in addition to paid losses) than the paid development method, the incurred development patterns may be less variable than paid patterns. However, selection of the incurred loss pattern requires analysis of all of the factors above. In addition, the inclusion of case reserves can lead to distortions if changes in case reserving practices have taken place, and the use of case incurred losses may not eliminate the issues associated with estimating the incurred loss pattern subsequent to the most mature point available. The loss ratio method multiplies earned premiums by an expected loss ratio to produce ultimate loss estimates for each accident year. This method may be useful for immature accident periods or if loss development patterns are inconsistent, losses emerge very slowly, or there is relatively little loss history from which to estimate future losses. The selection of the expected loss ratio requires analysis of loss ratios from earlier accident years or pricing studies and analysis of inflationary trends, frequency trends, rate changes, underwriting changes, and other applicable factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method using paid loss is a combination of the paid development method and the loss ratio method. This method normally determines expected loss ratios similar to the approach used to estimate the expected loss ratio for the loss ratio method and requires analysis of the same factors described above. This method assumes that only future losses will develop at the expected loss ratio level. The percent of paid loss to ultimate loss implied from the paid development method is used to determine what percentage of ultimate loss is yet to be paid. The use of the pattern from the paid development method requires consideration of all factors listed in the description of the paid development 51 Table of Contents method. The estimate of losses yet to be paid is added to current paid losses to estimate the ultimate loss for each year. This method will react very slowly if actual ultimate loss ratios are different from expectations due to changes not accounted for by the expected loss ratio calculation. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method using incurred loss is similar to the Bornhuetter Ferguson method using paid loss except that it uses case incurred losses. The use of case incurred losses instead of paid losses can result in development patterns that are less variable than paid patterns. However, the inclusion of case reserves can lead to distortions if changes in case reserving have taken place, and the method requires analysis of all the factors that need to be reviewed for the loss ratio and incurred development methods. The frequency times severity method multiplies a projected number of ultimate claims by an estimated ultimate average loss for each accident year to produce ultimate loss estimates. Since projections of the ultimate number of claims are often less variable than projections of ultimate loss, this method can provide more reliable results for products where loss development patterns are inconsistent or too variable to be relied on exclusively. In addition, this method can more directly account for changes in coverage that impact the number and size of claims. However, this method can be difficult to apply to situations where very large claims or a substantial number of unusual claims result in volatile average claim sizes. Projecting the ultimate number of claims requires analysis of several factors including the rate at which policyholders report claims to CNA, the impact of judicial decisions, the impact of underwriting changes and other factors. Estimating the ultimate average loss requires analysis of the impact of large losses and claim cost trends based on changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, changes in the cost of medical care, changes in the cost of wage replacement, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Stochastic modeling produces a range of possible outcomes based on varying assumptions related to the particular product being modeled. For some products, CNA uses models which rely on historical development patterns at an aggregate level, while other products are modeled using individual claim variability assumptions supplied by the claims department. In either case, multiple simulations are run and the results are analyzed to produce a range of potential outcomes. The results will typically include a mean and percentiles of the possible reserve distribution which aid in the selection of a point estimate. For many exposures, especially those that can be considered long tail, a particular accident year may not have a sufficient volume of paid losses to produce a statistically reliable estimate of ultimate losses. In such a case, CNAs actuaries typically assign more weight to the incurred development method than to the paid development method. As claims continue to settle and the volume of paid loss increases, the actuaries may assign additional weight to the paid development method. For most of CNAs products, even the incurred losses for accident years that are early in the claim settlement process will not be of sufficient volume to produce a reliable estimate of ultimate losses. In these cases, CNA will not assign any weight to the paid and incurred development methods. CNA will use the loss ratio, Bornhuetter Ferguson and frequency times severity methods. For short tail exposures, the paid and incurred development methods can often be relied on sooner primarily because CNAs history includes a sufficient number of years to cover the entire period over which paid and incurred losses are expected to change. However, CNA may also use the loss ratio, Bornhuetter Ferguson and frequency times severity methods for short tail exposures. For other more complex products where the above methods may not produce reliable indications, CNA uses additional methods tailored to the characteristics of the specific situation. Periodic Reserve Reviews The reserve analyses performed by CNAs actuaries result in point estimates. Each quarter, the results of the detailed reserve reviews are summarized and discussed with CNAs senior management to determine the best estimate of reserves. This group considers many factors in making this decision. The factors include, but are not limited to, the historical pattern and volatility of the actuarial indications, the sensitivity of the actuarial indications to changes in paid and incurred loss patterns, the consistency of claims handling processes, the consistency of case reserving practices, changes in CNAs pricing and underwriting, pricing and underwriting trends in the insurance market, and legal, judicial, social and economic trends. CNAs recorded reserves reflect its best estimate as of a particular point in time based upon known facts, consideration of the factors cited above, and its judgment. The carried reserve may differ from the actuarial point estimate as the result 52 Table of Contents of CNAs consideration of the factors noted above as well as the potential volatility of the projections associated with the specific product being analyzed and other factors impacting claims costs that may not be quantifiable through traditional actuarial analysis. This process results in managements best estimate which is then recorded as the loss reserve. Currently, CNAs recorded reserves are modestly higher than the actuarial point estimate. For both CNA Commercial and CNA Specialty, the difference between CNAs reserves and the actuarial point estimate is primarily driven by uncertainty with respect to immature accident years, claim cost inflation, changes in claims handling, tort reform roll backs which may adversely impact claim costs, and the effects from the economy. For Other Insurance, the difference between CNAs reserves and the actuarial point estimate is primarily driven by the potential tail volatility of run off exposures. The key assumptions fundamental to the reserving process are often different for various products and accident years. Some of these assumptions are explicit assumptions that are required of a particular method, but most of the assumptions are implicit and cannot be precisely quantified. An example of an explicit assumption is the pattern employed in the paid development method. However, the assumed pattern is itself based on several implicit assumptions such as the impact of inflation on medical costs and the rate at which claim professionals close claims. As a result, the effect on reserve estimates of a particular change in assumptions usually cannot be specifically quantified, and changes in these assumptions cannot be tracked over time. CNAs recorded reserves are managements best estimate. In order to provide an indication of the variability associated with CNAs net reserves, the following discussion provides a sensitivity analysis that shows the approximate estimated impact of variations in significant factors affecting CNAs reserve estimates for particular types of business. These significant factors are the ones that CNA believes could most likely materially impact the reserves. This discussion covers the major types of business for which CNA believes a material deviation to its reserves is reasonably possible. There can be no assurance that actual experience will be consistent with the current assumptions or with the variation indicated by the discussion. In addition, there can be no assurance that other factors and assumptions will not have a material impact on CNAs reserves. Within CNA Specialty, CNA believes a material deviation to its net reserves is reasonably possible for professional liability and related business. This business includes professional liability coverages provided to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, small and mid sized accounting firms, law firms and technology firms. This business also includes D&O, employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages as well as insurance products serving the health care delivery system. The most significant factor affecting reserve estimates for this business is claim severity. Claim severity is driven by the cost of medical care, the cost of wage replacement, legal fees, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. Underwriting and claim handling decisions such as the classes of business written and individual claim settlement decisions can also impact claim severity. If the estimated claim severity increases by 9%, CNA estimates that the net reserves would increase by approximately $450 million. If the estimated claim severity decreases by 3%, CNA estimates that net reserves would decrease by approximately $150 million. CNAs net reserves for this business were approximately $4.9 billion at December 31, 2011. Within CNA Commercial, the two types of business for which CNA believes a material deviation to its net reserves is reasonably possible are workers compensation and general liability. For CNA Commercial workers compensation, since many years will pass from the time the business is written until all claim payments have been made, claim cost inflation on claim payments is the most significant factor affecting workers compensation reserve estimates. Workers compensation claim cost inflation is driven by the cost of medical care, the cost of wage replacement, expected claimant lifetimes, judicial decisions, legislative changes and other factors. If estimated workers compensation claim cost inflation increases by 100 basis points for the entire period over which claim payments will be made, CNA estimates that its net reserves would increase by approximately $450 million. If estimated workers compensation claim cost inflation decreases by 100 basis points for the entire period over which claim payments will be made, CNA estimates that its net reserves would decrease by approximately $400 million. CNAs net reserves for CNA Commercial workers compensation were approximately $5.0 billion at December 31, 2011. For CNA Commercial general liability, the most significant factor affecting reserve estimates is claim severity. Claim severity is driven by changes in the cost of repairing or replacing property, the cost of medical care, the cost of wage 53 Table of Contents replacement, judicial decisions, legislation and other factors. If the estimated claim severity for general liability increases by 6%, CNA estimates that its net reserves would increase by approximately $200 million. If the estimated claim severity for general liability decreases by 3%, CNA estimates that its net reserves would decrease by approximately $100 million. Net reserves for CNA Commercial general liability were approximately $3.6 billion at December 31, 2011. Given the factors described above, it is not possible to quantify precisely the ultimate exposure represented by claims and related litigation. As a result, CNA regularly reviews the adequacy of its reserves and reassesses its reserve estimates as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and additional information becomes available in subsequent periods. In light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, CNA reviews its reserve estimates on a regular basis and makes adjustments in the period that the need for such adjustments is determined. These reviews have resulted in CNAs identification of information and trends that have caused CNA to change its reserves in prior periods and could lead to the identification of a need for additional material increases or decreases in claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, which could materially affect our results of operations and equity and CNAs business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings positively or negatively. See the Ratings section of this MD&A for further information regarding CNAs financial strength and corporate debt ratings. Life & Group Non Core Policyholder Reserves CNA calculates and maintains reserves for policyholder claims and benefits for its Life & Group Non Core segment based on actuarial assumptions. The determination of these reserves is fundamental to its financial results and requires management to make assumptions about expected investment and policyholder experience over the life of the contract. Since many of these contracts may be in force for several decades, these assumptions are subject to significant estimation risk. The actuarial assumptions represent managements best estimate at the date the contract was issued plus a margin for adverse deviation. Actuarial assumptions include estimates of morbidity, mortality, policy persistency, discount rates and expenses over the life of the contracts. Under GAAP, these assumptions are locked in throughout the life of the contract unless a premium deficiency develops. The impact of differences between the actuarial assumptions and actual experience is reflected in results of operations each period. Annually, management assesses the adequacy of its GAAP reserves by product group by performing premium deficiency testing. In this test, reserves computed using best estimate assumptions as of the date of the test without provisions for adverse deviation are compared to the recorded reserves. If reserves determined based on managements current best estimate assumptions are greater than the existing net GAAP reserves (i.e. reserves net of any Deferred acquisition costs asset), the existing net GAAP reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Payout Annuity Reserves CNAs payout annuity reserves consist primarily of single premium group and structured settlement annuities. The annuity payments are generally fixed and are either for a specified period or contingent on the survival of the payee. These reserves are discounted except for reserves for loss adjustment expenses on structured settlements not funded by annuities in its property and casualty insurance companies. CNA has recognized a premium deficiency on its payout annuity reserves, therefore the actuarial assumptions established at time of issue have been unlocked and updated to managements current best estimate. The actuarial assumptions that management believes are subject to the most variability are discount rates and mortality. The table below summarizes the estimated pretax impact on CNAs results of operations from various hypothetical revisions to its assumptions. CNA has assumed that revisions to such assumptions would occur in each policy type, age and duration within each policy group. Although such hypothetical revisions are not currently required or anticipated, CNA believes they could occur based on past variances in experience and its expectations of the ranges of future experience that could reasonably occur. 54 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 Estimated Reductionto Pretax Income (In millions of dollars) Hypothetical revisions Discount rate: 50 basis point decline $ 139 100 basis point decline 294 Mortality: 5% decline 24 10% decline 51 Any actual adjustment would be dependent on the specific policies affected and, therefore, may differ from the estimates summarized above. Long Term Care Reserves Long term care policies provide benefits for nursing home, assisted living and home health care subject to various daily and lifetime caps. Policyholders must continue to make periodic premium payments to keep the policy in force. Generally CNA has the ability to increase policy premiums, subject to state regulatory approval. CNAs long term care reserves consist of an active life reserve, a liability for due and unpaid claims, claims in the course of settlement and incurred but not reported claims. The active life reserve represents the present value of expected future benefit payments and expenses less expected future premium. The actuarial assumptions that management believes are subject to the most variability are discount rates, morbidity, and persistency, which can be impacted by policy lapses and death. The table below summarizes the estimated pretax impact on CNAs results of operations from various hypothetical revisions to its assumptions. CNA has assumed that revisions to such assumptions would occur in each policy type, age and duration within each policy group. Although such hypothetical revisions are not currently required or anticipated, CNA believes they could occur based on past variances in experience and its expectations of the ranges of future experience that could reasonably occur. It should be noted that CNAs current GAAP long term care reserves contain a level of margin in excess of managements current best estimates. Any required increase in the net GAAP reserves resulting from the hypothetical revisions in the table below would first reduce the margin before they would impact results of operations. The estimated impact to results of operations in the table below are after consideration of the existing margin. December 31, 2011 Estimated Reductionto Pretax Income (In millions of dollars) Hypothetical revisions Discount rate: 50 basis point decline $ 231 100 basis point decline 854 Morbidity: 5% increase 154 10% increase 631 Persistency: 5% decline in voluntary lapse and mortality 10% decline in voluntary lapse and mortality 256 Any actual adjustment would be dependent on the specific policies affected and, therefore, may differ from the estimates summarized above. 55 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Insurance premiums $ 6,603 $ 6,515 $ 6,721 Net investment income 2,054 2,316 2,320 Investment gains (losses) (19 ) 86 (857) Other 323 291 288 Total 8,961 9,208 8,472 Expenses: Insurance claims and policyholders benefits 5,489 4,985 5,290 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,410 1,387 1,417 Other operating expenses 992 1,558 1,086 Interest 185 157 128 Total 8,076 8,087 7,921 Income before income tax 885 1,121 551 Income tax expense (248 ) (336 ) (61) Income from continuing operations 637 785 490 Discontinued operations, net (20 ) (2) Net income 637 765 488 Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (78 ) (129 ) (91) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 559 $ 636 $ 397 Loss Portfolio Transfer Reinsurance Agreement As further discussed in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, on August 31, 2010, CNA completed a transaction with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., under which substantially all of its legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to NICO (Loss Portfolio Transfer). We recognized a loss of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in the third quarter of 2010, of which $309 million related to our continuing operations and $19 million related to our discontinued operations. 2011 Compared with 2010 Net income decreased $77 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. Excluding the loss associated with the Loss Portfolio Transfer, net income decreased $405 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. Net investment income decreased $262 million, reflecting significant unfavorable limited partnership results. In addition, investment gains (losses) decreased $105 million ($56 million after tax and noncontrolling interests). See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net realized investment results and net investment income. Partially offsetting these decreases was an $88 million increase in Insurance premiums. Insurance claims and policyholders benefits increased $504 million, primarily due to a lower level of favorable net prior year development, higher catastrophe losses and decreased results in CNAs payout annuity business. CNAs payout annuity business was negatively impacted by a $104 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) increase in insurance reserves, due to unlocking actuarial reserve assumptions for anticipated adverse changes in mortality and discount rates, which reflect the current low interest rate environment and CNAs view of expected investment yields, as discussed in Life & Group Non Core Policyholders Reserves above. Further information on net prior year development for 2011 and 2010 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 56 Table of Contents 2010 Compared with 2009 Net income increased $239 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was driven by significantly improved net investment results of $943 million ($551 million after tax and noncontrolling interests), partially offset by the loss associated with the Loss Portfolio Transfer. See the Investments section of this MD&A for further discussion of net realized investment results and net investment income. Favorable net prior year development of $594 million and $208 million was recorded for 2010 and 2009. Further information on net prior year development for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Net earned premiums decreased $206 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by a $176 million decrease in CNA Commercial and an $18 million decrease in CNA Specialty. See the CNA Segment Results section of this MD&A for further discussion. Net loss from discontinued operations increased $18 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, due to the loss associated with the Loss Portfolio Transfer. In 2010, CNA commenced a program to significantly transform its Information Technology (IT) organization and delivery model. The total costs for this program were $37 million, of which $36 million was incurred through December 31, 2010. Segment Results CNAs core property and casualty commercial insurance operations are reported in two business segments: CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial. CNA Specialty provides a broad array of professional, financial and specialty property and casualty products and services, primarily through insurance brokers and managing general underwriters. CNA Commercial includes property and casualty coverages sold to small businesses and middle market entities and organizations primarily through an independent agency distribution system. CNA Commercial also includes commercial insurance and risk management products sold to large corporations primarily through insurance brokers. CNAs non core operations are managed in two segments: Life & Group Non Core and Other Insurance. Life & Group Non Core primarily includes the results of the life and group lines of business that are in run off. Other Insurance primarily includes certain corporate expenses, including interest on corporate debt, and the results of certain property and casualty business primarily in run off, including CNA Re and A&EP. Intersegment eliminations are also included in this segment. CNA utilizes the net operating income financial measure to monitor its operations. Net operating income is calculated by excluding from net income the effects of (i) net realized investment gains or losses, (ii) income or loss from discontinued operations and (iii) any cumulative effects of changes in accounting guidance. In evaluating the results of the CNA Specialty and CNA Commercial segments, CNA utilizes the loss ratio, the expense ratio, the dividend ratio and the combined ratio. These ratios are calculated using GAAP financial results. The loss ratio is the percentage of net incurred claim and claim adjustment expenses to net earned premiums. The expense ratio is the percentage of insurance underwriting and acquisition expenses, including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, to net earned premiums. The dividend ratio is the ratio of policyholders dividends incurred to net earned premiums. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss, expense and dividend ratios. Changes in estimates of claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserves and premium accruals, net of reinsurance, for prior years are defined as net prior year development within this MD&A. These changes can be favorable or unfavorable. Net prior year development does not include the impact of related acquisition expenses. Further information on CNAs reserves is provided in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 57 Table of Contents The following discusses the results of continuing operations for CNAs operating segments. CNA Specialty The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA Specialty: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions, except %) Net written premiums $ 2,872 $ 2,691 $ 2,684 Net earned premiums 2,796 2,679 2,697 Net investment income 500 591 526 Net operating income 467 563 532 Net realized investment gains (losses) (3 ) 18 (110) Net income 464 581 422 Ratios: Loss and loss adjustment expense 59.3 % 54.0 % 56.9% Expense 30.7 30.5 29.3 Dividend (0.1 ) 0.5 0.3 Combined 89.9 % 85.0 % 86.5% 2011 Compared with 2010 Net written premiums for CNA Specialty increased $181 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily driven by new business. Net earned premiums increased $117 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, consistent with increases in net written premiums in recent quarters and favorable premium development in 2011. CNA Specialtys average rate was flat for 2011, as compared to a decrease of 2.2% in 2010 for the policies that renewed in each period. Retention of 86.1% and 85.7% was achieved in each period. Net income decreased $117 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. This decrease was due to lower net operating income and decreased net realized investment results. Net operating income decreased $96 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to lower favorable net prior year development and decreased net investment income. The combined ratio increased 4.9 points in 2011 as compared with 2010. The loss ratio increased 5.3 points, primarily due to lower favorable net prior year development as well as the impact of a higher current accident year loss ratio. The 2011 current accident year loss ratio was unfavorably affected by the anticipated loss cost trend that exceeded earned rate levels. Favorable net prior year development of $245 million and $344 million was recorded in 2011 and 2010. Further information on CNA Specialtys net prior year development for 2011 and 2010 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for CNA Specialty: December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 2,441 $ 2,341 Gross IBNR Reserves 4,399 4,452 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 6,840 $ 6,793 Net Case Reserves $ 2,086 $ 1,992 Net IBNR Reserves 3,937 3,926 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 6,023 $ 5,918 2010 Compared with 2009 Net written premiums for CNA Specialty increased $7 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Net written premiums increased in CNAs professional management and liability lines of business. This increase was partially offset by continued decreased insured exposures and lower rates in CNAs architects & engineers and CNA HealthPro lines of business due to economic and competitive market conditions. Net earned premiums decreased $18 million as compared with the same period in 2009, due to the impact of decreased net written premiums in prior quarters. CNA Specialtys average rate decreased 2.2% for 2010, as compared to a decrease of 1.6% in 2009 for policies that renewed in each period. Retention of 85.7% and 84.3% was achieved in each period. Net income improved $159 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This increase was due to improved net realized investment results and improved net operating income. Net operating income improved $31 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development and improved net investment income, partially offset by decreased current accident year underwriting results. The combined ratio improved 1.5 points in 2010 as compared with 2009. The loss ratio improved 2.9 points, primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by the impact of a higher current accident year loss ratio. The expense ratio increased 1.2 points primarily related to higher underwriting expenses and higher commission rates. Underwriting expenses were unfavorably impacted by higher employee related costs and IT costs. Favorable net prior year development of $344 million was recorded in 2010, compared to $224 million in 2009. Further information on CNA Specialtys net prior year development for 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 59 Table of Contents CNA Commercial The following table summarizes the results of operations for CNA Commercial: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions, except %) Net written premiums $ 3,350 $ 3,208 $ 3,448 Net earned premiums 3,240 3,256 3,432 Net investment income 763 873 935 Net operating income 333 459 445 Net realized investment gains (losses) 10 (14 ) (212) Net income 343 445 233 Ratios: Loss and loss adjustment expense 70.9 % 66.8 % 70.5% Expense 34.5 35.7 35.2 Dividend 0.3 0.4 0.3 Combined 105.7 % 102.9 % 106.0% 2011 Compared with 2010 Net written premiums for CNA Commercial increased $142 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. This increase was driven by continued positive rate achievement, improved economic conditions reflected in insured exposures, as well as lower reinsurance costs and higher new business levels in certain business lines. CNA Commercials average rate increased 2.0% in 2011, as compared with an increase of 0.6% in 2010 for the policies that renewed in each period. Retention of 79.3% and 79.7% was achieved in each period. Net income decreased $102 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. This decrease was due to lower net operating income, partially offset by improved net realized investment results. Net operating income decreased $126 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. This decrease was primarily due to lower net investment income, higher catastrophe losses and lower favorable net prior year development. In addition, income tax expense of $22 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2011 due to an increase in the tax rate applicable to the undistributed earnings of a 50% owned subsidiary which was sold later in 2011. The sale did not result in a material after tax impact inclusive of this income tax expense. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by improved non catastrophe current accident year underwriting results, including lower expenses. In 2010, expenses were unfavorably impacted by IT costs. The combined ratio increased 2.8 points in 2011 as compared with 2010. The loss ratio increased 4.1 points, primarily due to lower favorable net prior year development and higher catastrophe losses, partially offset by an improved current accident year non catastrophe loss ratio. Catastrophe losses were $208 million, or 6.4 points of the loss ratio, for 2011, as compared to $113 million, or 3.5 points of the loss ratio, for 2010. The expense ratio improved 1.2 points in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to the favorable impact of recoveries in 2011 on insurance receivables written off in prior years and the impact of IT costs incurred in 2010. Favorable net prior year development of $183 million and $256 million was recorded in 2011 and 2010. Further information on CNA Commercial net prior year development for 2011 and 2010 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 60 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for CNA Commercial: December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 6,266 $ 6,390 Gross IBNR Reserves 5,243 6,132 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 11,509 $ 12,522 Net Case Reserves $ 5,720 $ 5,349 Net IBNR Reserves 4,670 5,292 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 10,390 $ 10,641 2010 Compared with 2009 Net written premiums for CNA Commercial decreased $240 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Premiums written were unfavorably impacted by decreased insured exposures and decreased new business as a result of competitive market conditions. Economic conditions led to decreased insured exposures, such as in the construction industry due to smaller payrolls and reduced project volume. Net earned premiums decreased $176 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, consistent with the trend of lower net written premiums. CNA Commercials average rate increased 0.6% for 2010, as compared to flat rates for 2009 for the policies that renewed during those periods. Retention of 79.7% and 81.1% was achieved in each period. Net income improved $212 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was primarily due to improved net realized investment results. Net operating income improved $14 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This increase was primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by lower net investment income and higher catastrophe losses. The combined ratio improved 3.1 points in 2010 as compared with 2009. The loss ratio improved 3.7 points, primarily due to increased favorable net prior year development, partially offset by the impact of higher catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses were $113 million, or 3.5 points of the loss ratio, for 2010, as compared to $82 million, or 2.4 points of the loss ratio, for 2009. The expense ratio increased 0.5 points in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the lower net earned premium base. Underwriting expenses include the unfavorable impact of IT costs. Favorable net prior year development of $256 million was recorded in 2010, compared to favorable net prior year development of $143 million in 2009. Further information on CNA Commercial net prior year development for 2010 and 2009 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 61 Table of Contents Life & Group Non Core The following table summarizes the results of operations for Life & Group Non Core: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Net earned premiums $ 569 $ 582 $ 595 Net investment income 759 715 664 Net operating loss (187 ) (79 ) (14 ) Net realized investment gains (losses) (4 ) 30 (138 ) Net loss (191 ) (49 ) (152 ) 2011 Compared with 2010 Net earned premiums for Life & Group Non Core decreased $13 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. Net earned premiums relate primarily to the individual and group long term care businesses. Net loss increased $142 million in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to decreased results in CNAs payout annuity, pension deposit and long term care businesses. In 2011, CNAs payout annuity business was negatively impacted by a $104 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) increase in insurance reserves, due to unlocking actuarial reserve assumptions for anticipated adverse changes in mortality and discount rates, which reflect the current low interest rate environment and CNAs view of expected investment yields. The initial reserving assumptions for these contracts were determined at issuance, including a margin for adverse deviation, and were locked in throughout the life of the contract unless a premium deficiency developed. In 2011, a premium deficiency emerged and the actuarial reserve assumptions were unlocked and revised to managements current best estimates. In 2010, CNAs payout annuity reserves were increased by $35 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests), resulting from unlocking assumptions. Additionally, long term care claim reserves were increased by $30 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) in 2011. A number of CNAs separate account pension deposit contracts guarantee principal and an annual minimum rate of interest. If aggregate contract value in the separate account exceeds the fair value of the related assets, an additional Policyholders funds liability is established. In 2011, CNA increased this pretax liability by $18 million. In 2010, CNA decreased this pretax liability by $24 million. The increase in net loss was also impacted by decreased net realized investment results. In addition, 2010 includes favorable reserve development arising from a commutation of an assumed reinsurance agreement. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by decreased expenses. In 2010, expenses were unfavorably impacted by IT costs. 62 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the net carried Life & Group Non Core policyholder reserves: December 31, 2011 Claim and claim adjustment expenses Future policy benefits Policyholders funds Separate account business (In millions) Long term care $ 1,470 $ 6,374 Payout annuities 660 1,997 Institutional markets 1 15 $ 129 $ 417 Other 53 5 Total (a) $ 2,184 $ 8,391 $ 129 $ 417 December 31, 2010 Long term care $ 1,286 $ 5,829 Payout annuities 740 1,812 Institutional markets 1 15 $ 106 $ 450 Other 70 5 Total (a) $ 2,097 $ 7,661 $ 106 $ 450 (a) Reserve amounts are net of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion of ceded reserves and exclude $627 million and $235 million of future policy benefits relating to Shadow Adjustments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, as further discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Reserves at December 31, 2011 also exclude $95 million of claim and claim adjustment expenses relating to Shadow Adjustments. 2010 Compared with 2009 Net earned premiums for Life & Group Non Core decreased $13 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Net loss decreased $103 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This improvement was primarily due to improved net realized investment results. In addition, 2009 results included the unfavorable impact of a $25 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) legal accrual. The accrual was subsequently decreased in 2010 resulting in a favorable impact of $11 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests). Favorable reserve development arising from a commutation of an assumed reinsurance agreement in 2010 also contributed to the improvement. These favorable impacts were partially offset by a $55 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) gain recognized in 2009, net of reinsurance, arising from a settlement reached with Willis Limited that resolved litigation related to the placement of personal accident reinsurance. The favorable impacts were also partially offset by the increase to payout annuity benefit reserves resulting from unlocking assumptions due to loss recognition, unfavorable results in CNAs long term care business and less favorable performance on CNAs pension deposit business. During 2010 and 2009, CNA decreased the pretax liability in Policyholders funds related to its pension deposit business, as discussed above, by $24 million and $42 million, based on increases in the fair value of the investments supporting this business during those periods. 63 Table of Contents Other Insurance The following table summarizes the results of operations for the Other Insurance segment, including A&EP and intersegment eliminations: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Net investment income $ 32 $ 137 $ 195 Net operating loss (44 ) (334 ) (59 ) Net realized investment gains (losses) (13 ) 12 (45 ) Net loss (57 ) (322 ) (104 ) 2011 Compared with 2010 Net loss decreased $265 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily driven by the loss of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) as a result of the Loss Portfolio Transfer consummated in the third quarter of 2010. As a result of that transaction, the investment income allocated to the Other Insurance segment decreased substantially because of the lower net reserve base and associated risk capital. Claim adjustment expenses are lower because the counterparty to the Loss Portfolio Transfer is responsible for A&EP claim handling. The A&EP operations produced net operating income of $21 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) for 2010. Additionally, the decrease in net loss was driven by the favorable impact of a $22 million prior year tax amount and a $15 million pretax release of a previously established allowance for uncollectible reinsurance receivables arising from a change in estimate. These favorable impacts were partially offset by decreased net realized investment results and higher interest expense. The increase in interest expense primarily relates to the use of debt to fund a portion of the 2010 redemption of CNAs preferred stock. Favorable net prior year development of $3 million was recorded in 2011, compared to unfavorable net prior development of $6 million in 2010. The following table summarizes the gross and net carried reserves for the Other Insurance segment: December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Gross Case Reserves $ 1,321 $ 1,430 Gross IBNR Reserves 1,808 2,012 Total Gross Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 3,129 $ 3,442 Net Case Reserves $ 347 $ 461 Net IBNR Reserves 244 257 Total Net Carried Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves $ 591 $ 718 2010 Compared with 2009 Net loss increased $218 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by the loss of $328 million (after tax and noncontrolling interests) as a result of the Loss Portfolio Transfer. Net results were also impacted by lower net investment income and higher interest expense. Partially offsetting these unfavorable items were decreased unfavorable net prior year development and improved net realized investment results. Unfavorable net prior year development of $6 million was recorded in 2010, and unfavorable net prior year development of $159 million was recorded in 2009 which included $79 million for asbestos exposures and $76 million for environmental pollution exposures. Further information on Other Insurance net prior year development for 2009 is included in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 64 Table of Contents Diamond Offshore The two most significant variables affecting Diamond Offshores revenues are dayrates for rigs and rig utilization rates, each of which is a function of rig supply and demand in the marketplace. Demand for drilling services is dependent upon the level of expenditures set by oil and gas companies for offshore exploration and development, as well as a variety of political, regulatory and economic factors. The availability of rigs in a particular geographical region also affects both dayrates and utilization rates. These factors are not within Diamond Offshores control and are difficult to predict. Demand affects the number of days Diamond Offshores fleet is utilized and the dayrates earned. As utilization rates increase, dayrates tend to increase as well, reflecting the lower supply of available rigs. Conversely, as utilization rates decrease, dayrates tend to decrease as well, reflecting the excess supply of rigs. When a rig is idle, no dayrate is earned and revenues will decrease as a result. Revenues can also be affected as a result of the acquisition or disposal of rigs, required surveys and shipyard upgrades. In order to improve utilization or realize higher dayrates, Diamond Offshore may mobilize its rigs from one market to another. However, during periods of mobilization, revenues may be adversely affected. As a response to changes in demand, Diamond Offshore may withdraw a rig from the market by stacking it or may reactivate a rig stacked previously, which may decrease or increase revenues. As a result of anticipated downtime in the current year for rig mobilizations, regulatory surveys and shipyard projects, Diamond Offshore expects contract drilling revenue in 2012 to decline from the levels attained in 2011. Diamond Offshore also expects contract drilling revenue for some of its rigs to be lower as these rigs fulfill term commitments under contracts at lower dayrates than previously earned in 2011 and may not be able to benefit from higher dayrates that the market is currently bearing. For further information see Item 1A, Risk Factors The terms of Diamond Offshores drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. Diamond Offshores operating income is primarily affected by revenue factors, but is also a function of varying levels of operating expenses. Operating expenses represent all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation and maintenance of Diamond Offshores drilling equipment. The principal components of Diamond Offshores operating costs are, among other things, direct and indirect costs of labor and benefits, repairs and maintenance, freight, regulatory inspections, boat and helicopter rentals and insurance. Labor and repair and maintenance costs represent the most significant components of Diamond Offshores operating expenses. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels, rig staffing requirements and costs associated with labor regulations in the geographic regions in which Diamond Offshores rigs operate. In addition, the costs associated with training new and seasoned employees can be significant. Diamond Offshore expects its labor and training costs to increase in 2012 as a result of increased hiring and training activities as it continues the process of crewing three new drillships. Costs to repair and maintain equipment fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the drilling rig is performing, as well as the age and condition of the equipment and the regions in which Diamond Offshores rigs are working. Diamond Offshores operating costs are also impacted by the regulatory environments in which it operates. The adoption of new regulations could result in additional inspection and certification costs, as well as require additional capital investment to comply with regulatory requirements. Accordingly, Diamond Offshore cannot fully predict the financial impact of any new regulations that may arise relating to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (GOM), or elsewhere in the world. New laws or regulations may require an increase in capital spending for additional equipment to comply with such requirements. Diamond Offshores business could be negatively impacted by additional downtime which may be required to obtain necessary equipment and to install such equipment or to obtain the required inspections or certifications as prescribed under such regulations. Operating expenses generally are not affected by changes in dayrates, and short term reductions in utilization do not necessarily result in lower operating expenses. For instance, if a rig is to be idle for a short period of time, few decreases in operating expenses may actually occur since the rig is typically maintained in a prepared or warm stacked state with a full crew. In addition, when a rig is idle, Diamond Offshore is responsible for certain operating expenses such as rig fuel and supply boat costs, which are typically costs of the operator when a rig is under contract. However, if the rig is to be idle for an extended period of time, Diamond Offshore may reduce the size of a rigs crew and take steps to cold stack the rig, which lowers expenses and partially offsets the impact on operating income. Diamond Offshore recognizes, as incurred, operating expenses related to activities such as inspections, painting projects and routine 65 Table of Contents overhauls that meet certain criteria and which maintain rather than upgrade its rigs. These expenses vary from period to period. Costs of rig enhancements are capitalized and depreciated over the expected useful lives of the enhancements. Higher depreciation expense decreases operating income in periods following capital upgrades. Operating income is negatively impacted when Diamond Offshore performs certain regulatory inspections, which it refers to as a 5 year survey, or special survey, that are due every five years for each of Diamond Offshores rigs. Operating revenue decreases because these special surveys are performed during scheduled downtime in a shipyard. Operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, inspection costs incurred and repair and maintenance costs. Repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. The number of rigs undergoing a 5 year survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. In addition, operating income may be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between 5 year surveys. Intermediate surveys are generally less extensive in duration and scope than a 5 year survey. Although an intermediate survey may require some downtime for the drilling rig, it normally does not require dry docking or shipyard time, except for rigs located in the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea. During 2012, 11 of Diamond Offshores rigs will require 5 year surveys and one of its U.K. rigs will require dry docking for inspections. Diamond Offshore expects these 12 rigs to be out of service for approximately 660 days in the aggregate. Diamond Offshore also expects to spend an additional approximately 440 days during 2012 for intermediate surveys, the mobilization of rigs, contract acceptance testing and extended maintenance projects. Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. Diamond Offshore is self insured for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. If a named windstorm in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico causes significant damage to Diamond Offshores rigs or equipment, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Under its insurance policy that expires on May 1, 2012, Diamond Offshore carries physical damage insurance for certain losses other than those caused by named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for which its deductible for physical damage is $25 million per occurrence. Diamond Offshore does not typically retain loss of hire insurance policies to cover its rigs. In addition, under its insurance policy that expires on May 1, 2012, Diamond Offshore carries marine liability insurance covering certain legal liabilities, including coverage for certain personal injury claims, with no exclusions for pollution and or environmental risk. Diamond Offshore believes that the policy limit for its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for Diamond Offshores business. Diamond Offshores deductibles for marine liability coverage, including for personal injury claims, are $10 million for the first occurrence and vary in amounts ranging between $5 million and, if aggregate claims exceed certain thresholds, up to $100 million for each subsequent occurrence, depending on the nature, severity and frequency of claims which might arise during the policy year, which under the current policy commences on May 1 of each year. Recent Developments Diamond Offshores floating rigs accounted for approximately 94% of its contract drilling revenue during 2011. Industry wide floater utilization is greater than 90%, and, as of February 1, 2012, Diamond Offshores floating rigs were committed for approximately 75% of the days remaining in 2012 and 54% of 2013. Internationally, the ultra deepwater and deepwater floater markets are generally strong and also show signs of further strengthening, particularly in the ultra deepwater segment where Diamond Offshore believes that there are few uncontracted rigs available to work in 2012. However, based on a December of 2011 analyst report, there are 49 ultra deepwater and deepwater floaters under construction, which are expected to enter the market in 2012 and 2013. Many of these floaters, primarily those scheduled for delivery in 2013, are not yet contracted for future work. Market strength for ultra deepwater and deepwater rigs varies among geographic regions. Upcoming drilling programs offshore Brazil will require a number of additional ultra deepwater rigs. This demand may be met by rigs constructed 66 Table of Contents domestically in Brazil, including 33 deepwater floaters ordered by Petrobras. However, additional demand for ultra deepwater rigs could develop if Brazilian drilling programs, including those of Petrobras, are accelerated prior to delivery of domestically constructed rigs. In addition, successful exploration and development programs in West Africa have given rise to a robust market for deepwater and ultra deepwater rigs in that region. Market strength for mid water floaters is stable or improving depending on the geographic market. In the North Sea, the mid water market is strong, with signs of increasing dayrates, and in the Mediterranean region, demand remains solid. The Southeast Asia and Australia markets also remain steady. Four of Diamond Offshores marketed jack up rigs are currently operating in the Mexican waters of the Gulf of Mexico, where drilling activity remains stable and additional tendering activity is ongoing. Of Diamond Offshores two remaining marketed international jack ups, one is currently working in Egypt, and the other, located in Montenegro, is actively seeking work. Deepwater drilling activity in the GOM, while strengthening, continues to be impacted by the issuance of oil and gas drilling permits for operations on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) which has not yet returned to pre Macondo levels. In addition, since the Macondo well blowout in 2010, more stringent and encompassing rules for oil and gas operations on the OCS have been implemented. Diamond Offshore has two actively marketed rigs in the GOM, consisting of one semisubmersible and one jack up rig. The Ocean Victory and Ocean Columbia are currently operating in the GOM, both with contract backlog extending into the second quarter of 2012. Contract Drilling Backlog The following table reflects Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog as of February 1, 2012, October 17, 2011 (the date reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011) and February 1, 2011 (the date reported in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2010). Contract drilling backlog is calculated by multiplying the contracted operating dayrate by the firm contract period and adding one half of any potential rig performance bonuses. Diamond Offshores calculation also assumes full utilization of its drilling equipment for the contract period (excluding scheduled shipyard and survey days); however, the amount of actual revenue earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will be different than the amounts and periods shown in the tables below due to various factors. Utilization rates, which generally approach 92% 98% during contracted periods, can be adversely impacted by downtime due to various operating factors including, but not limited to, weather conditions and unscheduled repairs and maintenance. Contract drilling backlog excludes revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation and customer reimbursables. No revenue is generally earned during periods of downtime for regulatory surveys. Changes in Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog between periods are a function of the performance of work on term contracts, as well as the extension or modification of existing term contracts and the execution of additional contracts. February 1, 2012 October 17, 2011 February 1, 2011 (In millions) Floaters: Ultra Deepwater (a) $ 4,926 $ 4,363 $ 2,269 Deepwater (b) 1,081 1,100 1,394 Mid Water (c) 2,348 2,384 2,875 Total Floaters 8,355 7,847 6,538 Jack ups 277 290 107 Total $ 8,632 $ 8,137 $ 6,645 (a) Includes $1.9 billion attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2012 to 2015 and $1.8 billion attributable to future work for two of Diamond Offshores drillships under construction as of February 1, 2012. (b) Includes $787 million attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2012 to 2016 as of February 1, 2012. (c) Includes $1.6 billion attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil for the years 2012 to 2015 as of February 1, 2012. 67 Table of Contents The following table reflects the amount of Diamond Offshores contract drilling backlog by year as of February 1, 2012: 2015 2019 2015 2019 2015 2019 2015 2019 2015 2019 Year Ended December 31 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2019 (In millions) Floaters: Ultra Deepwater (a)(b) $ 4,926 $ 909 $ 959 $ 1,019 $ 2,039 Deepwater (c) 1,081 470 266 149 196 Mid Water (d) 2,348 1,086 752 424 86 Total Floaters 8,355 2,465 1,977 1,592 2,321 Jack ups 277 150 97 30 Total $ 8,632 $ 2,615 $ 2,074 $ 1,622 $ 2,321 (a) Includes $29 million and $299 million for the years 2013 and 2014, and $1.5 billion in the aggregate for the years 2015 to 2019, attributable to future work for two of Diamond Offshores drillships under construction as of February 1, 2012. (b) Includes $507 million, $524 million, $524 million and $324 million for the years 2012 to 2015, attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil. (c) Includes $220 million, $222 million and $149 million for the years 2012 to 2014, and $196 million in the aggregate for the years 2015 to 2016, attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil. (d) Includes $631 million, $477 million, $368 million and $86 million for the years 2012 to 2015, attributable to contracted operations offshore Brazil. The following table reflects the percentage of rig days committed by year as of February 1, 2012. The percentage of rig days committed is calculated as the ratio of total days committed under contracts, as well as scheduled shipyard, survey and mobilization days for all rigs in Diamond Offshores fleet, to total available days (number of rigs multiplied by the number of days in a particular year). Total available days have been calculated based on the expected final commissioning dates for rigs under construction. Year Ended December 31 2012 (a) 2013 (a) 2014 2015 2019 Floaters: Ultra Deepwater 96 % 89 % 70 % 23 % Deepwater 80 % 43 % 19 % 5 % Mid Water 65 % 43 % 22 % 1 % All Floaters 75 % 54 % 35 % 8 % Jack ups 34 % 21 % 7 % (a) As of February 1, 2012, includes approximately 1,100 and 500 currently known, scheduled shipyard, survey and mobilization days for 2012 and 2013. 68 Table of Contents Dayrate and Utilization Statistics Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Revenue earning days (a) Floaters: Ultra Deepwater 2,387 1,873 2,030 Deepwater 1,718 1,342 1,298 Mid Water 5,254 5,800 6,197 Jack ups 2,218 3,028 3,382 Utilization (b) Floaters: Ultra Deepwater 82 % 66 % 85 % Deepwater 94 % 74 % 71 % Mid Water 72 % 79 % 85 % Jack ups 47 % 61 % 66 % Average daily revenue (c) Floaters: Ultra Deepwater $ 342,900 $ 358,400 $ 367,000 Deepwater 416,500 401,900 401,900 Mid Water 269,600 281,000 287,900 Jack ups 81,900 87,700 127,300 (a) A revenue earning day is defined as a 24 hour period during which a rig earns a dayrate after commencement of operations and excludes mobilization, demobilization and contract preparation days. (b) Utilization is calculated as the ratio of total revenue earnings days divided by the total calendar days in the period for all rigs in Diamond Offshores fleet (including cold stacked rigs). (c) Average daily revenue is defined as contract drilling revenue (excluding revenue for mobilization, demobilization and contract preparation) per revenue earning day. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for Diamond Offshore for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Contract drilling revenues $ 3,254 $ 3,230 $ 3,537 Net investment income 7 3 4 Investment gains 1 1 Other 73 128 112 Total 3,335 3,361 3,654 Expenses: Contract drilling expenses 1,549 1,391 1,224 Other operating expenses 535 546 515 Interest 73 91 50 Total 2,157 2,028 1,789 Income before income tax 1,178 1,333 1,865 Income tax expense (250 ) (413 ) (540 ) Net income 928 920 1,325 Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (477 ) (474 ) (682 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 451 $ 446 $ 643 69 Table of Contents 2011 Compared with 2010 Contract drilling revenue increased $24 million, or 0.7%, and net income increased $5 million, or 1.1%, in 2011 as compared with 2010. Revenue generated by Diamond Offshores floater rigs increased an aggregate $95 million, or 3.2% in 2011 as compared with 2010, while revenue generated by its jack up fleet declined $71 million or 26.3%. Except for Diamond Offshores deepwater floaters, average daily revenue earned by its other rigs decreased during 2011 compared to the levels attained in 2010. Utilization for ultra deepwater and deepwater floaters increased significantly in 2011 as compared with 2010; however, utilization for mid water floater and jack up fleets decreased in 2011. One additional mid water floater and one jack up rig were cold stacked during 2011. Diamond Offshores two newest floaters, the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, which began operating under contract late in the first quarter and in the fourth quarter of 2010, contributed incremental revenue of $162 million during 2011. Total contract drilling expense increased $158 million, or 11.4%, during 2011 as compared with 2010, reflecting incremental contract drilling expense for the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, higher amortized mobilization costs and higher other operating costs associated with rigs operating internationally rather than domestically. Revenue from ultra deepwater floaters increased $123 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to increased utilization of $184 million, partially offset by a decrease in dayrates of $36 million. In addition, during the third quarter of 2010 Diamond Offshore received a $31 million contract termination fee related to the Ocean Endeavor. Revenue earning days increased by 514, primarily due to the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, which were under contract in Brazil for all of 2011 and worked a combined 353 incremental revenue earning days, compared to 2010, generating $162 million in incremental revenue. However, aggregate revenue earned by Diamond Offshores six other ultra deepwater rigs decreased $39 million due to a lower average daily revenue earned, partially offset by an increase in revenue earning days due to downtime in 2010 associated with the relocation of three rigs from the GOM to international locations. Contract drilling expense for Diamond Offshores ultra deepwater floaters increased $173 million primarily due to incremental contract drilling expense from the operation of the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, incremental mobilization expense and higher costs associated with operating rigs internationally. Revenue from deepwater floaters increased $169 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. This increase was primarily due to a $152 million increase in utilization and $25 million increase in dayrates, partially offset by an $8 million decrease in amortized mobilization fees. Revenue earning days increased by 376 in 2011, primarily due to 209 fewer non operating days for repairs, inspections and contract preparation activities, 87 fewer rig mobilization days and 80 fewer days in which rigs were warm stacked between contracts. Contract drilling expense for deepwater floaters increased $8 million primarily due to the Ocean America operating offshore Australia for all of 2011 compared to the prior year when the rig commenced drilling operations in June. This amount was partially offset by a reduction in recognized mobilization costs due to the full amortization of previously deferred costs as rigs completed their initial contracts. Revenue from mid water floaters decreased $197 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to decreased utilization of $153 million, decreased dayrates of $59 million and decreased amortized mobilization fees of $9 million, partially offset by a $24 million demobilization fee received in relation to the Ocean Yorktowns completion of its contract offshore Brazil. Revenue earning days decreased by 546, primarily attributable to 963 additional cold stacked days in 2011 compared to 2010, partially offset by 282 less warm stacked days between contracts, 84 less days for unpaid downtime for repairs and 51 less rig mobilization days. Contract drilling expense for mid water floaters decreased $9 million and included a reduction in costs associated with cold stacked rigs, partially offset by an increase in personnel related costs, repairs and maintenance expense, shorebase support and overhead costs, including costs associated with the demobilization of the Ocean Yorktown to the GOM. Revenue from jack up rigs decreased $71 million in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to decreased utilization of $71 million and decreased dayrates of $13 million, partially offset by a $13 million increase in amortized mobilization fees. Revenue earning days decreased by 810, reflecting the impact of cold stacking rigs during the period, the sale of the Ocean Shield in July 2010 and an increase in warm stacked days in between contracts, partially offset by a decrease in the number of non revenue earning days for repairs and mobilization of rigs. Contract drilling expense for jack ups decreased $21 million primarily due to reduced expense for cold stacked rigs and the Ocean Shield, partially offset by higher rig mobilization costs, inspection costs and hull insurance. 70 Table of Contents Net income increased in 2011 as compared with 2010, primarily due to the changes in contract drilling revenue and expense discussed above. In addition, interest expense decreased $18 million, primarily due to interest capitalized in 2011 on Diamond Offshores three drillships under construction. In 2010, Diamond Offshore recognized a pretax gain of $33 million related to the sale of the Ocean Shield. Diamond Offshores annual effective tax rate decreased in 2011 as compared with 2010. The lower effective tax rate in the current year is primarily the result of differences in the mix of Diamond Offshores domestic and international pretax earnings and losses, as well as the mix of international tax jurisdictions in which Diamond Offshore operates. Also contributing to the lower effective tax rate in 2011 was the impact of a tax law provision that expired at the end of 2009 but was subsequently signed back into law in December 2010. This provision allows Diamond Offshore to defer recognition of certain foreign earnings for U.S. income tax purposes. The extension of this tax law provision, and Diamond Offshores decisions to build three new drillships overseas caused Diamond Offshore to reassess its intent to repatriate certain foreign earnings to the U.S. It is now Diamond Offshores intent to reinvest those earnings internationally. Consequently, Diamond Offshore is no longer providing taxes on those foreign earnings and has reversed previously accrued taxes related to those earnings. 2010 Compared with 2009 Contract drilling revenue decreased $307 million, or 8.7%, and net income decreased $197 million, or 30.6%, in 2010 as compared with 2009. Revenue generated by Diamond Offshores floater fleet decreased $118 million and revenue for its jack up fleet decreased $189 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. In 2010, Diamond Offshore cold stacked three additional rigs in the GOM, consisting of two mid water floaters and one jack up rig. However, the two newest additions to Diamond Offshores floater fleet, the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, began operating under contract during the first and fourth quarters of 2010 and contributed $109 million to revenue. Additionally, Diamond Offshore recognized a gain in connection with the sale of the Ocean Shield in July of 2010, as discussed above. Total contract drilling expense increased $167 million and included normal operating costs for the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, as well as increased amortized mobilization costs and higher other operating costs associated with rigs operating internationally rather than domestically. Revenue from ultra deepwater floaters decreased $28 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to decreased utilization of $58 million and decreased dayrates of $16 million, partially offset by a $31 million contract termination fee received in relation to the Ocean Endeavor, as well as a $15 million increase in amortized mobilization fees. During 2010, the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor generated $109 million in revenue and worked a combined 280 revenue earning days. However, aggregate revenue earned by Diamond Offshores six other ultra deepwater rigs decreased $137 million due to 437 fewer revenue earning days, largely resulting from effects of the April 20, 2010 Macondo well blowout in the GOM, as well as a decrease in average daily revenue earned. The decrease in revenue earning days was primarily attributable to increased downtime associated with incremental mobilization, contract preparation and customer acceptance days for three ultra deepwater rigs that were relocated from the GOM to international locations in 2010 and unplanned downtime due to a force majeure assertion by a customer in the GOM following the Macondo incident. Contract drilling expense for ultra deepwater floaters increased $111 million and included $85 million in incremental contract drilling expense incurred by the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, as well as $12 million in incremental mobilization expenses. Contract drilling expense in 2010 also reflected higher maintenance, inspection, freight, non income based taxes and other revenue based fees, partially offset by lower personnel and related costs, including a lower U.S. labor component as more of Diamond Offshores rigs worked internationally in 2010 compared to the prior year. Revenue from deepwater floaters increased $38 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to a $21 million increase in amortized mobilization fees and a $17 million increase in utilization. Revenue earning days increased by 44 in 2010 as compared with 2009 resulting from 165 fewer warm stacked days between contracts, partially offset by 80 additional non revenue earning days due to scheduled shipyard time for inspections, repairs and contract preparation activities and 45 incremental rig mobilization days. Contract drilling expense for deepwater floaters increased $47 million primarily due to incremental mobilization expense, including amortized mobilization costs, increased personnel related costs, higher revenue based fees and shorebase support costs, which included costs related to Diamond Offshores Angola operations and higher costs related to its expanded operations offshore Brazil. 71 Table of Contents Revenue from mid water floaters decreased $128 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to a $114 million decrease in utilization and a $40 million decrease in dayrates, partially offset by a $26 million increase in amortized mobilization fees. Revenue earning days decreased by 397 primarily due to increased downtime during 2010 for repairs and the cold stacking of rigs, partially offset by fewer mobilization and warm stacked days. Contract drilling expense for mid water floaters increased $59 million primarily due to higher personnel related expenses, rig mobilization costs, including amortized mobilization expenses, revenue based fees and taxes and shorebase support (Brazil and the Falkland Islands) and overhead costs. Revenue from jack up rigs decreased $189 million in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to a $120 million decrease in dayrates, a $45 million decrease in utilization and a $24 million decrease in amortized mobilization fees. The decrease in average daily revenue earned during 2010 resulted primarily from all of Diamond Offshores jack up rigs working at lower dayrates than those earned during 2009 due to weakened market conditions at the time. Utilization decreased from 66% in 2009 to 61% in 2010, reflecting 354 fewer revenue earning days, primarily due to the sale of the Ocean Shield and the impact of Diamond Offshores cold stacked rigs, including an additional jack up rig cold stacked in September of 2010, partially offset by a decrease in downtime between contracts for actively marketed jack ups. Amortized mobilization fees decreased primarily due to $15 million in deferred mobilization revenue recognized in 2009 by the Ocean Scepter upon completion of its contract offshore Argentina. Contract drilling expense for jack ups decreased $46 million primarily due to reduced expense for Diamond Offshores cold stacked rigs and the Ocean Shield, which was sold in July 2010. Net income decreased in 2010 as compared with 2009, primarily due to the changes in contract drilling revenue and expense discussed above. In addition, other operating expenses include an increase in depreciation of $47 million in 2010 due to a higher depreciable asset base, including depreciation on the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor, which were placed in service in September 2009 and March 2010, but did not begin drilling operations until 2010. Interest expense increased $41 million due to a full year of interest expense in 2010 for Diamond Offshores issuance of 5.9% senior notes in May of 2009, and the issuance of 5.7% senior notes in October of 2009. Diamond Offshores effective tax rate increased in 2010 as compared with 2009. The higher effective tax rate is a result of differences in the mix between its domestic and international pretax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of international tax jurisdictions in which Diamond Offshore operates. Also contributing to the higher effective tax rate in the current period were taxes associated with the sale of the Ocean Shield. HighMount We use the following terms throughout this discussion of HighMounts results of operations, with equivalent volumes computed with oil and NGL quantities converted to Mcf, on an energy equivalent ratio of one barrel to six Mcf: Bbl Barrel (of oil or NGLs) Bcf Billion cubic feet (of natural gas) Bcfe Billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent Mbbl Thousand barrels (of oil or NGLs) Mcf Thousand cubic feet (of natural gas) Mcfe Thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent MMBtu Million British thermal units HighMounts revenues and profitability depend substantially on natural gas and oil prices and HighMounts ability to increase its natural gas and oil production. Since 2008 the price of natural gas and, to a lesser extent, NGLs has declined reflecting new sources of supply in shale formations and more efficient horizontal drilling techniques employed in shale formations. This has adversely impacted HighMounts results of operations. The price of natural gas and oil as well as drilling costs, also impacts HighMounts ability to realize attractive returns on the capital it employs to finance its drilling programs. In addition, the price HighMount realizes for its gas production is affected by its hedging activities, as well as locational differences in market prices. HighMounts operating expenses consist primarily of production expenses, production and ad valorem taxes, as well as depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expenses. Production expenses represent costs incurred to operate and maintain wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs. Production and ad valorem taxes increase or decrease primarily when prices of natural gas and oil increase or decrease, but they are also affected by changes in 72 Table of Contents production, as well as appreciated property values. HighMount calculates depletion using the units of production method, which depletes the capitalized costs and future development costs associated with evaluated properties based on the ratio of production volumes for the current period to total remaining reserve volumes for the evaluated properties. HighMounts depletion expense is affected by its capital spending program and projected future development costs, as well as reserve changes resulting from drilling programs, well performance and revisions due to changing commodity prices. As discussed in Valuation of HighMounts Proved Reserves in Critical Accounting Estimates, a ceiling test calculation is performed at the end of each quarterly period. HighMounts December 31, 2011, ceiling test calculation was based on average 2011 prices of $4.12 per MMBtu for natural gas, $55.18 per Bbl for NGLs and $96.19 per Bbl for oil. Using these prices, total capitalized cost did not exceed the ceiling. The price of natural gas has declined from $4.41 per MMBtu on January 1, 2011 to $2.99 per MMBtu on January 1, 2012. If prices remain static throughout 2012, and holding all other assumptions constant, it is likely that HighMount would incur one or more material non cash ceiling test impairments during the year. The potential impairment charge would be based on actual pricing at each measurement date. Production and Sales Statistics Presented below are production and sales statistics related to HighMounts operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Gas production (Bcf) 45.4 57.4 77.0 Gas sales (Bcf) 42.7 53.6 70.8 Oil production/sales (Mbbls) 282.2 253.9 363.0 NGL production/sales (Mbbls) 2,693.7 3,008.9 3,315.9 Equivalent production (Bcfe) 63.3 77.0 99.0 Equivalent sales (Bcfe) 60.6 73.2 92.9 Average realized prices without hedging results: Gas (per Mcf) $ 3.94 $ 4.30 $ 3.72 NGL (per Bbl) 52.70 40.96 30.07 Oil (per Bbl) 89.43 73.80 55.37 Equivalent (per Mcfe) 5.54 5.09 4.13 Average realized prices with hedging results: Gas (per Mcf) $ 5.84 $ 6.03 $ 6.94 NGL (per Bbl) 39.60 34.84 30.98 Oil (per Bbl) 89.43 73.80 55.37 Equivalent (per Mcfe) 6.30 6.10 6.61 Average cost per Mcfe: Production expenses $ 1.20 $ 1.12 $ 1.10 Production and ad valorem taxes 0.39 0.37 0.36 General and administrative expenses 0.68 0.62 0.58 Depletion expense 1.18 0.93 0.98 In the second quarter of 2010, HighMount completed the sale of exploration and production assets located in the Antrim Shale in Michigan and the Black Warrior Basin in Alabama. The Michigan and Alabama properties represented approximately 17% in aggregate of HighMounts total proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, prior to the sales. 73 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for HighMount for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 390 $ 455 $ 620 Investment losses (34 ) (30 ) Total 356 425 620 Expenses: Impairment of natural gas and oil properties 1,036 Operating 245 258 343 Interest 46 61 80 Total 291 319 1,459 Income (loss) before income tax 65 106 (839 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (24 ) (48 ) 302 Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 41 $ 58 $ (537 ) 2011 Compared with 2010 HighMounts operating revenues decreased $65 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. Operating revenues decreased by $46 million due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama in 2010. Permian Basin operating revenues decreased by $19 million on sales volumes of 60.6 Bcfe in 2011 compared to 66.5 Bcfe in 2010. Average prices realized per Mcfe for Permian Basin sales were $6.30 in 2011 compared to $6.02 in 2010, which reflects hedging activities. The decrease in Permian Basin sales volume is primarily due to the reduction in HighMounts drilling activity in response to lower natural gas prices. HighMount had hedges in place as of December 31, 2011 that covered approximately 51.7% and 16.3% of its total estimated 2012 and 2013 natural gas equivalent production at a weighted average price of $5.79 and $5.44 per Mcfe. In connection with refinancing its $1.1 billion variable rate term loans a pretax loss of $34 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting derivative losses from termination of interest rate hedge activities. As a result of the Michigan and Alabama asset sales in 2010, HighMount recognized a pretax loss of $30 million in Investment losses related to its interest rate and commodity hedging activities. HighMount used the proceeds from the basin sales to reduce the outstanding debt under its term loans by $500 million, which resulted in a $15 million decrease in interest expense in 2011. Operating expenses decreased $13 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. The decline reflects a $21 million decrease related to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama, partially offset by an $8 million increase in operating expenses in the Permian Basin. The increase in operating expenses is due to higher DD&A expenses, partially offset by lower general and administrative expenses. DD&A expenses were $94 million and $92 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. This reflects a $10 million increase in the Permian Basin, due to negative reserve revisions and projected future development, offset by an $8 million decrease due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama. 2010 Compared with 2009 HighMounts operating revenues decreased $165 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Operating revenues decreased by $88 million due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama. Permian Basin operating revenues decreased by $77 million on sales volumes of 66.5 Bcfe in 2010 compared to 74.6 Bcfe in 2009. Average 74 Table of Contents prices realized per Mcfe for Permian Basin sales were $6.02 in 2010 compared to $6.42 in 2009. The decrease in Permian Basin sales volume is primarily due to the reduction in HighMounts drilling activity. In the first quarter of 2009, HighMount recorded a non cash ceiling test impairment charge of $1.0 billion ($660 million after tax) related to the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties. The write down was the result of declines in commodity prices. Had the effects of HighMounts cash flow hedges not been considered in calculating the ceiling limitation, the impairment would have been $1.2 billion ($784 million after tax). No such impairment was required during 2010. Operating expenses decreased $85 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. The decline reflects a $39 million decrease related to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama, partially offset by an $11 million adjustment to property impairment recorded in 2009. During 2009, HighMount incurred non recurring operating expenses of $32 million related to fees for early termination rights on drilling rig contracts and a tubular inventory impairment charge. In addition, operating expenses in the Permian Basin decreased $25 million due to lower DD&A expenses, lower production and ad valorem taxes and cost cutting efforts in 2010. DD&A expenses declined to $92 million in 2010, compared to $119 million in 2009, reflecting a $16 million decrease due to the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama and an $11 million reduction in HighMounts depletion rate in 2010, primarily due to the impairment of natural gas and oil properties recorded in 2009. Boardwalk Pipeline Boardwalk Pipeline derives revenues primarily from the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas for third parties. Transportation services consist of firm transportation, whereby the customer pays a capacity reservation charge to reserve pipeline capacity at certain receipt and delivery points along pipeline systems, plus a commodity and fuel charge on the volume of natural gas actually transported, and interruptible transportation, whereby the customer pays to transport gas only when capacity is available and used. Boardwalk Pipeline offers firm storage services in which the customer reserves and pays for a specific amount of storage capacity, including injection and withdrawal rights, and interruptible storage and parking and lending (PAL) services where the customer receives and pays for capacity only when it is available and used. Some PAL agreements are paid for at inception of the service and revenues for these agreements are recognized as service is provided over the term of the agreement. Boardwalk Pipeline is not in the business of buying and selling natural gas other than for system management purposes, but changes in the level of natural gas prices may impact the volumes of gas transported on its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipelines operating costs and expenses typically do not vary significantly based upon the amount of gas transported, with the exception of fuel consumed at its compressor stations. The majority of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues are derived from capacity reservation charges under firm agreements that are not impacted by the volume of natural gas transported or stored, and a smaller portion of revenues are derived from charges based on actual volumes transported under firm and interruptible services. For example, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, approximately 82% of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues were derived from capacity reservation charges and approximately 18% of Boardwalk Pipelines revenues were derived from charges based on actual volumes transported or stored. As of December 31, 2011, a substantial portion of Boardwalk Pipelines transportation capacity has been contracted for under firm agreements having a weighted average remaining life of approximately 6.0 years. However, an important aspect of Boardwalk Pipelines business is its ability to market available short term firm or interruptible transportation capacity and renew existing longer term transportation contracts. Boardwalk Pipeline actively markets its available capacity which includes reserved capacity not fully utilized. The revenues it will be able to earn from that available capacity and from renewals of expiring contracts will be influenced by basis spreads and other factors discussed below. Boardwalk Pipelines ability to market available transportation capacity is impacted by supply and demand for natural gas, competition from other pipelines, natural gas price volatility, the price differential between physical locations on its pipeline systems (basis spreads), economic conditions and other factors. Over the past several years, new sources of natural gas have been identified throughout the U.S. and new pipeline infrastructure has been developed, which has led to changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas and an overall weakening of basis spreads across its pipeline systems. 75 Table of Contents The narrowing of basis spreads on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems has made it more difficult to renew expiring long term firm transportation contracts at previously contracted rates because, as basis spreads decrease, the rates customers are willing to pay decrease. In addition, as rates decline customers typically seek longer term agreements while Boardwalk Pipeline generally seeks shorter terms. Changing basis spreads do not have as significant or immediate of an impact on long term firm agreements as they do on short term or interruptible services because long term agreements are also influenced by other factors, such as baseload supply needs, certainty of delivery, predictability of long term costs, the ability to manage those costs through the capacity release mechanism and the terms of service. The changes in the pricing dynamics and weakening of basis spreads have contributed to decreases in Boardwalk Pipelines operating profitability especially with regard to short term and interruptible services. However, in 2011, revenues from power customers increased and Boardwalk Pipeline continues to see additional interest from this customer group. Boardwalk Pipelines ability to market available storage capacity and PAL is impacted by many of the factors indicated above, as well as natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads). These time period price spreads have declined over the 2010 to 2011 periods and have resulted in a significant reduction in Boardwalk Pipelines PAL and interruptible storage revenues in 2011 as compared to 2010. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of operations for Boardwalk Pipeline for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 1,144 $ 1,128 $ 910 Net investment income 1 Total 1,144 1,129 910 Expenses: Operating 760 695 621 Interest 173 151 132 Total 933 846 753 Income before income tax 211 283 157 Income tax expense (57 ) (73 ) (44 ) Net income 154 210 113 Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests (77 ) (96 ) (46 ) Net income attributable to Loews Corporation $ 77 $ 114 $ 67 2011 Compared with 2010 Total revenues increased $15 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. Gas transportation revenues, excluding fuel, increased $60 million primarily from increased capacities resulting from the completion of several compression projects in 2010 and operating the Fayetteville Lateral at its design capacity. PAL and storage revenues decreased $22 million due to decreased parking opportunities from unfavorable natural gas price spreads between time periods and fuel retained decreased $16 million primarily due to lower natural gas prices. Operating expenses increased $65 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. The increase includes a $29 million impairment charge associated with Boardwalk Pipelines materials and supplies, most of which was subsequently sold. There were also higher operation and maintenance expenses of $18 million primarily due to maintenance projects for pipeline integrity management and reliability spending and lower amounts of labor capitalized from fewer growth projects and higher depreciation and property taxes of $12 million associated with an increase in the asset base. These increases were partially offset by lower fuel consumed of $9 million primarily due to lower natural gas prices. Interest expense increased by $22 million in 2011, primarily from a $13 million charge on the early extinguishment of debt and 76 Table of Contents $8 million resulting from higher average interest rates on Boardwalk Pipelines long term debt and lower capitalized interest. Net income decreased $37 million in 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to the factors described above, as well as lower gains of $8 million on the sale of storage gas. 2010 Compared with 2009 Total revenues increased $219 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Gas transportation revenues, excluding fuel, increased $199 million and fuel retained increased $31 million, primarily due to the pipeline expansion projects. In addition, there was an $18 million gain from the sale of gas related to the western Kentucky storage expansion project and a reduction in storage gas needed to support no notice services. These increases were partially offset by $14 million of lower interruptible and short term firm transportation services resulting from lower basis spreads between delivery points on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems. PAL and storage revenues decreased $9 million due to decreased parking opportunities from unfavorable natural gas price spreads between time periods. Operating expenses increased $74 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This increase was primarily driven by a $47 million increase in fuel consumed due to the pipeline expansion projects and higher natural gas prices. There was a $24 million increase in depreciation and property taxes due to a larger asset base from the pipeline expansion projects and a $10 million increase in operation and maintenance expenses due to an increase in major maintenance projects. The 2009 period was unfavorably impacted by $8 million of pipeline investigation and retirement costs related to the East Texas Pipeline. Interest expense increased $19 million due to higher debt levels in 2010 and lower capitalized interest due to the completion of Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline expansion projects. Net income increased $47 million in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to higher revenues from transportation services primarily from the pipeline expansion projects and a gain on gas sales, partially offset by increased operating expenses related to higher depreciation and property taxes associated with the pipeline expansion projects and increased interest expense. In 2009, gas transportation revenues and throughput were negatively impacted due to operating the pipeline expansion projects at reduced operating pressures and portions of the pipeline expansion projects being shut down for periods of time following the discovery and remediation of anomalies in certain joints of pipe. Loews Hotels The following table summarizes the results of operations for Loews Hotels for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Other revenue, primarily operating $ 336 $ 307 $ 284 Net investment income 1 1 Total 337 308 284 Expenses: Operating 311 296 327 Interest 9 10 9 Total 320 306 336 Income (loss) before income tax 17 2 (52 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (4 ) (1 ) 18 Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ 13 $ 1 $ (34 ) 2011 Compared with 2010 Revenues increased by $29 million, or 9.4%, in 2011 as compared to 2010. Net income increased by $12 million as compared to 2010. 77 Table of Contents Revenue per available room increased $15.29 to $163.18 in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in revenue per available room reflects improving occupancy and average room rates. Occupancy rates increased to 73.6% in 2011 from 70.1% in 2010. Average room rates increased by $10.46, or 5.0%, in 2011 as compared to 2010. The improvement in operating results for 2011 as compared to 2010 is due primarily to increases in revenue per available room described above, and increases in earnings from Orlando joint venture properties reflecting higher occupancy and average room rates. Revenue per available room is an industry measure of the combined effect of occupancy rates and average room rates on room revenues. Other hotel operating revenues primarily include guest charges for food and beverages. 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues increased by $24 million, or 8.5%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. Net income amounted to $1 million in 2010 as compared to a net loss of $34 million in 2009. Revenue per available room increased $13.29 to $147.89 in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in revenue per available room reflects improving occupancy and average room rates. Occupancy rates increased to 70.1% in 2010 from 66.4% in 2009. Average room rates increased by $8.23, or 4.1%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating expenses in 2009 included aggregate pretax charges of $47 million due to the impact of the contracting U.S. economy. These charges included $27 million for the impairment of an investment in a Loews Hotels property, $10 million related to a development project commitment and $10 million for a loan guarantee at a managed hotel. The improvement in operating results is primarily due to the absence of charges recorded in 2009 as discussed above, and also reflects the increase in revenue per available room in 2010. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other operations consist primarily of investment income at the Parent Company, corporate interest expenses and other corporate administrative costs. Investment income includes earnings on cash and short term investments held at the Parent Company level to meet current and future liquidity needs, as well as results of limited partnership investments and the trading portfolio managed to take advantage of potential market opportunities. The following table summarizes the results of operations for Corporate and Other for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as presented in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Revenues: Net investment income $ 1 $ 187 $ 175 Investment gains 3 Other (2 ) (3 ) (1 ) Total (1 ) 184 177 Expenses: Operating 87 80 80 Interest 44 47 49 Total 131 127 129 Income (loss) before income tax (132 ) 57 48 Income tax (expense) benefit 47 (24 ) (20 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Loews Corporation $ (85 ) $ 33 $ 28 78 Table of Contents 2011 Compared with 2010 Revenues decreased by $185 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. There was a net loss of $85 million in 2011 as compared to net income of $33 million in 2010. Due to less favorable equity investment returns and overall capital market volatility, the results of the trading portfolio were flat for 2011 as compared to significant gains in 2010. Earnings on cash and short term investments were also negatively impacted in 2011 by lower effective income yields. 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues and net income in 2010 were relatively unchanged from 2009, and reflects improved earnings due to higher cash and short term investment balances and improved performance of the trading portfolio and limited partnership investments, partially offset by lower yields on cash and short term investments. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CNA Financial Cash Flows CNAs principal operating cash flow sources are premiums and investment income from its insurance subsidiaries. CNAs primary operating cash flow uses are payments for claims, policy benefits and operating expenses. Additionally, cash may be paid or received for income taxes. For 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion as compared with net cash used by operating activities of $89 million for 2010. As further discussed in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 and previously referenced in this MD&A, in 2010 CNA completed the Loss Portfolio Transfer transaction. As a result of this transaction, operating cash flows were reduced for the initial net cash settlement with NICO. Excluding the impact of this transaction, net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $1.8 billion for 2010. Cash flows resulting from reinsurance contract commutations are reported as operating activities. During 2011, operating cash flows were increased by $547 million related to net cash inflows from commutations as compared to net cash inflows of $189 million during 2010. Additionally, payments made for income taxes were $61 million for 2011 as compared to a refund of $175 million in 2010. Further, because cash receipts and cash payments resulting from purchases and sales of trading securities are reported as cash flows related to operating activities, during 2010 operating cash flows were increased by $153 million as compared to an increase of $1 million during 2011 related to trading activity. Excluding the items above, net cash generated by CNAs business operations was approximately $1.2 billion for 2011 and $1.3 billion for 2010. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 billion in 2009. Operating cash flows were decreased by $164 million in 2009 related to net cash outflows which increased the size of the trading portfolio held at December 31, 2009. Cash flows from investing activities include the purchase and sale of available for sale financial instruments. Additionally, cash flows from investing activities may include the purchase and sale of businesses, land, buildings, equipment and other assets not generally held for resale. Net cash used by investing activities was $1.1 billion for 2011, as compared with net cash provided of $767 million for 2010 and net cash used of $1.1 billion for 2009. The cash flow from investing activities is impacted by various factors such as the anticipated payment of claims, financing activity, asset/liability management and individual security buy and sell decisions made in the normal course of portfolio management. Net cash provided by investing activities in 2010 primarily related to the sale of short term investments which was used to fund the $1.9 billion initial net cash settlement with NICO as discussed above. Cash flows from financing activities include proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities, outflows for stockholder dividends or repayment of debt and outlays to reacquire equity instruments. 79 Table of Contents Net cash used by financing activities was $644 million, $742 million and $120 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009. During 2011, CNA purchased the noncontrolling interest of CNA Surety and resumed payment of common stock dividends. Net cash used by financing activities in 2010 was primarily related to payments to redeem the outstanding 2008 Senior Preferred as discussed below. 2008 Senior Preferred and Surplus Note In 2008, CNA issued, and Loews purchased, 12,500 shares of CNA non voting cumulative senior preferred stock for $1.25 billion. CNA used the majority of the proceeds to increase the statutory surplus of its principal insurance subsidiary, Continental Casualty Company (CCC), through the purchase of a $1.0 billion surplus note of CCC. As of December 31, 2010, CNA has fully redeemed all 12,500 shares originally issued, through a series of redemptions during 2009 and 2010. The redemptions were funded by the issuance of debt and the partial repayment of the surplus note. Dividends of $76 million and $122 million on the 2008 Senior Preferred were declared and paid for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Liquidity CNA believes that its present cash flows from operations, investing activities and financing activities are sufficient to fund its current and expected working capital and debt obligation needs and CNA does not expect this to change in the near term. There are currently no amounts outstanding under CNAs revolving credit facility, which provides for a total commitment of up to $250 million. This credit facility expires in August of 2012. CNA has an effective Registration Statement on Form S 3 registering the future sale of an unlimited amount of its debt and equity securities. Dividends Dividends of $0.40 per share of CNAs common stock were declared and paid in 2011. On February 3, 2012, CNAs Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, payable March 1, 2012 to stockholders of record on February 16, 2012. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of CNAs Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including CNAs earnings, financial condition, business needs, and regulatory constraints. Ratings Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. CNAs insurance company subsidiaries are rated by major rating agencies, and these ratings reflect the rating agencys opinion of the insurance companys financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agencys rating should be evaluated independently of any other agencys rating. One or more of these agencies could take action in the future to change the ratings of CNAs insurance subsidiaries. The table below reflects the various group ratings issued by A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Moodys and S&P for the property and casualty and life companies. The table also includes the ratings for CNA senior debt and The Continental Corporation (Continental) senior debt. Insurance Financial Strength Ratings Corporate Debt Ratings Property & Casualty Life CNA Continental CCC Group WesternGroup CAC SeniorDebt Senior Debt A.M. Best A A A bbb Not rated Moodys A3 Not rated Not rated Baa3 Baa3 S&P A A Not rated BBB BBB 80 Table of Contents A.M. Best and Moodys maintain a stable outlook on CNA. In 2011, S&P revised their outlook on CNAs rating to positive from stable. If CNAs property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings were downgraded below current levels, its business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The severity of the impact on CNAs business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. Among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of CNAs insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. Downgrades of corporate debt ratings could result in adverse effects upon CNAs liquidity position, including negatively impacting CNAs ability to access capital markets, and increasing its financing costs. Further, additional collateralization may be required for certain settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts, as well as derivative contracts, if CNAs ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. Diamond Offshore Cash and investments totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Diamond Offshore paid cash dividends totaling $490 million, consisting of aggregate regular cash dividends of $69 million and aggregate special cash dividends of $421 million. On February 1, 2012, Diamond Offshore declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share and a special dividend of $0.75 per share. Cash provided by operating activities in 2011 was $1.4 billion, compared to $1.3 billion in 2010. Cash used in investing activities in 2011 increased $604 million compared to 2010. This increase was primarily due to capital expenditures related to the construction of Diamond Offshores three new drillships, as discussed below, as well as $186 million in proceeds received in relation to the sale of the Ocean Shield in 2010. During 2011, Diamond Offshore paid $478 million as the first of two installments for the construction of its three new, ultra deepwater drillships with delivery scheduled for the second and fourth quarters of 2013 and in the second quarter of 2014. The aggregate cost of the three drillships, including commissioning, spares and project management, is expected to be $1.8 billion. In addition, in 2011 Diamond Offshore spent approximately $285 million on capital expenditures associated with its ongoing rig equipment replacement and enhancement programs and other corporate requirements. In December of 2011, Diamond Offshore entered into an agreement to construct a deepwater semisubmersible rig. The rig will be constructed utilizing the hull of one of Diamond Offshores mid water floaters that previously operated as the Ocean Voyager. The project is estimated to be completed in the third quarter of 2013 at an aggregate cost of approximately $300 million, including commissioning, spares and project management costs. For 2012, Diamond Offshore has budgeted approximately $220 million for capital expenditures associated with the construction of its new drillships and the Ocean Onyx and an additional $330 million for capital expenditures associated with its ongoing rig equipment replacement and enhancement programs and other corporate requirements. Diamond Offshore expects to finance its 2012 capital expenditures through the use of existing cash balances or internally generated funds. Diamond Offshores liquidity and capital requirements are primarily a function of its working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements. Diamond Offshore determines the amount of cash required to meet its capital commitments by evaluating the need to upgrade rigs to meet specific customer requirements, its ongoing rig equipment replacement and enhancement programs and its obligations relating to the construction of its three new drillships. As a result of Diamond Offshores intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its wholly owned subsidiary, Diamond Offshore International Limited (DOIL), to finance its foreign activities, Diamond Offshore does not expect such earnings to be available for distribution to its stockholders or to finance its domestic activities. However, Diamond Offshore believes that the operating cash flows generated by and cash reserves of DOIL, and the operating cash flows available to and cash reserves of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., will be sufficient to meet both its working capital requirements and its capital commitments over the next twelve months. Diamond Offshore will, however, continue to make periodic assessments based on industry conditions and will adjust capital spending programs if required. 81 Table of Contents HighMount At December 31, 2011 and 2010, cash and investments amounted to $85 million and $130 million. Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $140 million and $197 million in 2011 and 2010. Key drivers of net operating cash flows are commodity prices, production volumes and operating costs. Cash used in investing activities in 2011 was $292 million, compared to cash provided by investing activities of $351 million in 2010. In 2011, HighMount paid approximately $106 million for the acquisition of working interests in oil and gas properties as discussed in the Business section under Item 1. The acquisition was funded with a capital contribution from us. Cash provided by investing activities in 2010 includes the net proceeds from the sale of HighMounts assets in Michigan and Alabama of approximately $530 million. The primary driver of cash used in investing activities was capital spent developing HighMounts natural gas and oil reserves. HighMount spent $86 million and $104 million on capital expenditures for its drilling program in 2011 and 2010. HighMount expects to spend approximately $320 million on capital expenditures in 2012 developing its natural gas and oil reserves. Capital spending in 2012 will be focused on liquid rich and oil drilling opportunities. Funds for capital expenditures and working capital requirements are expected to be provided primarily from operating activities and the available capacity under the revolving credit facility. On December 1, 2011, HighMount refinanced its $1.1 billion term loans due on July 26, 2012 with proceeds from a new credit agreement and a $400 million capital contribution from us. The new credit agreement consists of a $600 million five year variable rate term loan and a five year $250 million revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, HighMount had $600 million of term loans and $100 million of revolving loans outstanding under its credit facility. As a result of the refinancing of its term loans in the fourth quarter of 2011, HighMount paid $38 million to terminate its interest rate swaps. For information regarding the refinancing see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. In 2010 HighMount used proceeds from the sale of its assets in Michigan and Alabama to reduce the outstanding debt under its term loans by $500 million to $1.1 billion. HighMounts credit agreement governing its term loans and revolving credit facility contains financial covenants typical for these types of agreements, including a maximum debt to capitalization ratio and a minimum present value of proved natural gas and oil reserves to total debt ratio. The credit agreement also contains customary restrictions or limitations on HighMounts ability to engage in certain transactions, including transactions with affiliates. At December 31, 2011, HighMount was in compliance with all of its covenants under the credit agreement. Boardwalk Pipeline At December 31, 2011 and 2010, cash and investments amounted to $23 million and $59 million. Funds from operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 amounted to $453 million, compared to $465 million in 2010. In 2011 and 2010, Boardwalk Pipelines capital expenditures were $142 million and $227 million. In addition to the growth expenditures described below, in the next twelve months, Boardwalk Pipelines revolving credit facility and $225 million of 5.8% senior notes are due to mature. Boardwalk Pipelines ability to access the capital markets for debt and equity financing under reasonable terms depends on its financial condition, credit ratings and market conditions. Boardwalk Pipeline anticipates that its existing capital resources, including the revolving credit facility and future cash flows will be adequate to fund its operations, including its maintenance capital expenditures. Boardwalk Pipeline expects to issue and sell debt and or equity securities for general corporate purposes, including to refinance outstanding debt or to fund potential acquisitions and new growth opportunities. As of December 31, 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline had $458 million of loans outstanding under its revolving credit facility with a weighted average interest rate on the borrowings of 0.5% and had no letters of credit issued. The revolving credit facility has a maturity date of June 29, 2012, however, all outstanding revolving loans on such date may be converted to term loans having a maturity date of June 29, 2013. As of December 31, 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline was in compliance with all covenant requirements under the credit facility. Subsequent to December 31, 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline repaid $115 million of borrowings, resulting in available borrowing capacity of $607 million. 82 Table of Contents In January and June of 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline issued $325 million and $115 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% senior notes due February 1, 2021. The net proceeds of the offering were used to reduce borrowings under the revolving credit facility and redeem 5.5% Notes due April 1, 2013. In June of 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline sold 6 million common units at a price of $29.33 per unit in a public offering and received net proceeds of $174 million, including a $4 million contribution by us to maintain our 2% general partner interest. The Companys percentage ownership interest in Boardwalk Pipeline declined as a result of this transaction, from 66% to 64%. The issuance price of the common units exceeded the Companys carrying amount, resulting in an increase to additional paid in capital of $28 million. In December of 2011, Boardwalk Pipeline contributed $70 million for a 20% equity interest in Boardwalk HP Storage Company, LLC (HP Storage). In the first quarter of 2012, Boardwalk Pipeline sold 9.2 million common units at a price of $27.55 per unit in a public offering and received net proceeds of $250 million, including a $5 million contribution from us to maintain our 2% general partner interest. The net proceeds were used to repay borrowings under Boardwalk Pipelines revolving credit facility, which increased its available borrowing capacity under the facility. Boardwalk Pipeline incurs substantial costs for ongoing maintenance of its pipeline systems and related facilities, some of which reflect increased regulatory requirements applicable to all interstate pipelines. These costs include those incurred for pipeline integrity management activities, equipment overhauls, general upkeep and repairs. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration has developed regulations that require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in highly populated areas. A recently enacted pipeline safety bill could result in increased regulatory requirements. In 2012, Boardwalk Pipeline expects to incur costs of approximately $260 million related to its pipeline systems. Maintenance capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be $91 million, of which $43 million is for system maintenance primarily related to pipeline integrity management. In 2011, these costs were approximately $250 million, of which $80 million was recorded as maintenance capital. The projected increase of $10 million is primarily related to pipeline integrity projects and general pipeline maintenance and repairs which are necessary to comply with regulatory requirements. Boardwalk Pipelines more significant growth projects for 2012 consist of: South Texas Eagle Ford Expansion: In 2012, Boardwalk Pipeline expects to spend approximately $180 million to construct a gathering pipeline and a cryogenic processing plant in south Texas. Marcellus Gathering System: Boardwalk Pipeline expects to spend approximately $90 million to construct a gathering pipeline in Pennsylvania, of which it expects to spend approximately $70 million in 2012. HP Storage: In 2012, HP Storage expects to spend approximately $35 million to leach a new salt dome storage cavern with a working gas capacity of approximately 5.0 Bcf. Boardwalk Pipeline currently owns a 20% equity interest in HP Storage. Boardwalk Pipeline could seek to acquire the remaining 80% equity interest in HP Storage that it does not currently own, if it makes economic sense for Boardwalk Pipeline and BPHC. Neither Boardwalk Pipeline nor BPHC is under any obligation with respect to such a transaction. Loews Hotels Funds from operations continue to exceed operating requirements. Cash and investments increased to $81 million at December 31, 2011 from $67 million at December 31, 2010. Funds for other capital expenditures, working capital requirements and mortgage debt coming due in the next twelve months are expected to be provided from existing cash balances, operations, refinancing, newly incurred debt and advances or capital contributions from the Parent Company. 83 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Parent Company cash and investments, net of receivables and payables, at December 31, 2011 totaled $3.3 billion, as compared to $4.6 billion at December 31, 2010. During 2011, we paid $718 million to fund treasury stock purchases, repaid at maturity the entire $175 million principal amount of our 8.9% debentures and paid $101 million of cash dividends to our shareholders. These cash outflows were partially offset by the receipt of $624 million in interest and dividends from our subsidiaries. During 2011, we also made capital contributions of $400 million to HighMount in connection with the refinancing of its term loans and $106 million to fund the acquisition of working interests in oil and gas properties. In addition, we paid $280 million for an 80% equity ownership interest in HP Storage, a joint venture with Boardwalk Pipeline. As of December 31, 2011, there were 396,585,226 shares of Loews common stock outstanding. Depending on market and other conditions, we may purchase shares of our and our subsidiaries outstanding common stock in the open market or otherwise. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased 18,205,438 shares of Loews common stock at an aggregate cost of $718 million. We have an effective Registration Statement on Form S 3 registering the future sale of an unlimited amount of our debt and equity securities. We continue to pursue conservative financial strategies while seeking opportunities for responsible growth. These include the expansion of existing businesses, full or partial acquisitions and dispositions, and opportunities for efficiencies and economies of scale. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Our contractual payment obligations are as follows: Payments Due by Period December 31, 2011 Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Debt (a) $ 12,922 $ 1,239 $ 1,721 $ 3,578 $ 6,384 Operating leases 496 60 115 85 236 Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (b) 25,858 5,738 7,531 3,923 8,666 Future policy benefits reserves (c) 32,188 111 365 616 31,096 Policyholder funds reserves (c) 151 22 29 (1 ) 101 Rig construction contracts (d) 1,262 80 1,182 Purchase and other obligations 120 54 37 21 8 Total (e) $ 72,997 $ 7,304 $ 10,980 $ 8,222 $ 46,491 (a) Includes estimated future interest payments. (b) Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are not discounted and represent CNAs estimate of the amount and timing of the ultimate settlement and administration of gross claims based on its assessment of facts and circumstances known as of December 31, 2011. See the Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties section of this MD&A for further information. (c) Future policy benefits and policyholders funds reserves are not discounted and represent CNAs estimate of the ultimate amount and timing of the settlement of benefits based on its assessment of facts and circumstances known as of December 31, 2011. Future policy benefit reserves of $725 million and policyholders fund reserves of $36 million related to business which has been 100% ceded to unaffiliated parties in connection with the sale of CNAs individual life business in 2004 are not included. Additional information on future policy benefits and policyholders funds reserves is included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. (d) Diamond Offshore has entered three separate turnkey contracts for the construction of three ultra deepwater drillships with 84 Table of Contents deliveries scheduled in 2013 and 2014. The aggregate cost of the three drillships is expected to be approximately $1.8 billion, of which $478 million was paid in 2011. The final installments of the contracted price are payable upon delivery of each vessel. Diamond Offshore has also entered into a construction contract to upgrade an existing rig. The upgrade is expected to be completed in 2013 at an aggregate cost of approximately $300 million. (e) Does not include expected contribution of approximately $114 million to the Companys pension and postretirement plans in 2012. Further information on our commitments, contingencies and guarantees is provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. INVESTMENTS Investment activities of non insurance subsidiaries primarily include investments in fixed income securities, including short term investments. The Parent Company portfolio also includes equity securities, including short sales and derivative instruments, and investments in limited partnerships. These types of investments generally present greater volatility, less liquidity and greater risk than fixed income investments and are included within Results of Operations Corporate and Other. We enter into short sales and invest in certain derivative instruments that are used for asset and liability management activities, income enhancements to our portfolio management strategy and to benefit from anticipated future movements in the underlying markets. If such movements do not occur as anticipated, then significant losses may occur. Monitoring procedures include senior management review of daily detailed reports of existing positions and valuation fluctuations to ensure that open positions are consistent with our portfolio strategy. Credit exposure associated with non performance by the counterparties to derivative instruments is generally limited to the uncollateralized change in fair value of the derivative instruments recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We mitigate the risk of non performance by monitoring the creditworthiness of counterparties and diversifying derivatives to multiple counterparties. We occasionally require collateral from our derivative investment counterparties depending on the amount of the exposure and the credit rating of the counterparty. Insurance CNA maintains a large portfolio of fixed maturity and equity securities, including large amounts of corporate and government issued debt securities, residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, and other asset backed securities and investments in limited partnerships which pursue a variety of long and short investment strategies across a broad array of asset classes. CNAs investment portfolio supports its obligation to pay future insurance claims and provides investment returns which are an important part of CNAs overall profitability. Net Investment Income The significant components of CNAs pretax net investment income are presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Fixed maturity securities $ 2,011 $ 2,051 $ 1,941 Short term investments 8 15 36 Limited partnerships 48 249 315 Equity securities 20 32 49 Trading portfolio 9 13 23 Other 16 10 6 Gross investment income 2,112 2,370 2,370 Investment expenses (58 ) (54 ) (50) Net investment income $ 2,054 $ 2,316 $ 2,320 Net investment income decreased $262 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by a significant decrease in limited partnership results as well as lower fixed maturity security income. Limited partnership 85 Table of Contents results were adversely impacted by less favorable equity market returns, and overall capital market and credit spread volatility. The decrease in fixed maturity security income was primarily driven by reinvestment at lower market rates which led to a decline in the effective income yield of the portfolio. Net investment income decreased $4 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. This decrease was primarily driven by less favorable income from CNAs limited partnership investments, substantially offset by an investment shift during 2010 from lower yielding short term and tax exempt securities to higher yielding taxable fixed maturity securities. The unfavorable year over year comparison in income from CNAs limited partnership investments was driven by significant returns from CNAs limited partnership investments in 2009. The fixed maturity investment portfolio provided a pretax effective income yield of 5.5%, 5.6% and 5.7% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Tax exempt municipal bonds generated $240 million, $263 million and $381 million of net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The components of CNAs net realized investment results are presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Realized investment gains (losses): Fixed maturity securities: Corporate and other bonds $ 48 $ 164 $ (345) States, municipalities and political subdivisions 5 (128) (20) Asset backed (82) 44 (778) U.S. Treasury and obligations of government sponsored enterprises 1 3 (53) Foreign government 3 2 38 Redeemable preferred stock 3 7 (9) Total fixed maturity securities (22) 92 (1,167) Equity securities (1) (2) 243 Derivative securities (1) 51 Short term investments 7 10 Other 4 (10) 6 Total realized investment gains (losses) (19) 86 (857) Income tax (expense) benefit 8 (36) 296 Net realized investment gains (losses) (11) 50 (561) Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests 1 (4) 56 Net realized investment gains (losses) attributable to Loews Corporation $ (10 ) $ 46 $ (505) Net realized investment gains decreased $56 million for 2011 compared with 2010. Net realized investment results improved $551 million for 2010 as compared with 2009, driven by significantly lower other than temporary impairment (OTTI) losses recognized in earnings. Net realized investment results include OTTI losses of $140 million, $151 million, and $879 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Further information on CNAs realized gains and losses, including CNAs OTTI losses and impairment decision process, is set forth in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance, which amended the OTTI loss model for fixed maturity securities, as discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Portfolio Quality CNAs fixed maturity portfolio consists primarily of high quality bonds, 92.1% and 90.6% of which were rated as investment grade (rated BBB or higher) at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The classification between investment grade and non investment grade is based on a ratings methodology that takes into account ratings from two major providers, 86 Table of Contents S&P and Moodys, in that order of preference. If a security is not rated by these providers, CNA formulates an internal rating. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 98% of the fixed maturity portfolio was issued or guaranteed by the U.S. Government, Government agencies or Government sponsored enterprises or was rated by S&P or Moodys. The following table summarizes the ratings of CNAs fixed maturity portfolio at fair value: December 31 2011 2010 (In millions of dollars) U.S. Government, Government agencies and Government sponsored enterprises $ 4,760 11.9 % $ 4,003 10.7 % AAA 3,421 8.6 3,950 10.5 AA and A 17,807 44.6 15,665 41.7 BBB 10,790 27.0 10,425 27.7 Non investment grade 3,159 7.9 3,534 9.4 Total $ 39,937 100.0 % $ 37,577 100.0 % Non investment grade fixed maturity securities, as presented in the table below, include high yield securities rated below BBB by bond rating agencies and other unrated securities that, according to CNAs analysis, are below investment grade. Non investment grade securities generally involve a greater degree of risk than investment grade securities. The amortized cost of CNAs non investment grade fixed maturity bond portfolio was $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The following table summarizes the ratings of this portfolio at fair value. December 31 2011 2010 (In millions of dollars) BB $ 1,484 47.0 % $ 1,492 42.2 % B 867 27.4 1,163 32.9 CCC C 689 21.8 801 22.7 D 119 3.8 78 2.2 Total $ 3,159 100.0 % $ 3,534 100.0 % The gross unrealized loss on available for sale fixed maturity securities was $536 million at December 31, 2011. The following table provides the maturity profile for these available for sale fixed maturity securities. Securities not due at a single date are allocated based on weighted average life. December 31, 2011 Percent of Fair Value Percent of Unrealized Loss Due in one year or less 8.5 % 3.5 % Due after one year through five years 33.9 23.9 Due after five years through ten years 29.9 30.6 Due after ten years 27.7 42.0 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % Duration A primary objective in the management of the investment portfolio is to optimize return relative to corresponding liabilities and respective liquidity needs. CNAs views on the current interest rate environment, tax regulations, asset class valuations, specific security issuer and broader industry segment conditions, and the domestic and global economic conditions, are some of the factors that enter into an investment decision. CNA also continually monitors exposure to issuers of securities held and broader industry sector exposures and may from time to time adjust such exposures based on its views of a specific issuer or industry sector. 87 Table of Contents A further consideration in the management of the investment portfolio is the characteristics of the corresponding liabilities and the ability to align the duration of the portfolio to those liabilities and to meet future liquidity needs, minimize interest rate risk and maintain a level of income sufficient to support the underlying insurance liabilities. For portfolios where future liability cash flows are determinable and typically long term in nature, CNA segregates investments for asset/liability management purposes. The segregated investments support the liabilities in the Life & Group Non Core segment including annuities, structured settlements and long term care products. The effective durations of fixed maturity securities, short term investments, non redeemable preferred stocks and interest rate derivatives are presented in the table below. Short term investments are net of payable and receivable amounts for securities purchased and sold, but not yet settled. December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Fair Value Effective Duration(Years) Fair Value Effective Duration(Years) (In millions of dollars) Investments supporting Life & Group Non Core $ 13,820 11.5 $ 11,825 11.0 Other interest sensitive investments 28,071 3.9 28,096 4.5 Total $ 41,891 6.4 $ 39,921 6.4 The investment portfolio is periodically analyzed for changes in duration and related price risk. Additionally, CNA periodically reviews the sensitivity of the portfolio to the level of foreign exchange rates and other factors that contribute to market price changes. A summary of these risks and specific analysis on changes is included in Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included herein. Select Asset Class Discussion CNAs fixed maturity portfolio includes exposure to sub prime residential mortgage securities (sub prime) and Alternative A residential mortgage securities that have lower than normal standards of loan documentation (Alt A), as measured by the original deal structure. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of sub prime securities was $330 million, 66.0% of which were rated investment grade, with associated net unrealized losses of $34 million. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of Alt A securities was $542 million, 68.3% of which were rated investment grade, with associated net unrealized losses of $18 million. Pretax OTTI losses on asset backed securities recognized in earnings in 2011 were $111 million, and $44 million of this amount related to securities with sub prime and Alt A exposure. If additional deterioration in the underlying collateral occurs beyond CNAs current expectations, additional OTTI losses may be recognized in earnings. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 for additional information related to unrealized losses on asset backed securities. CNAs fixed maturity portfolio also includes European exposure. The following table summarizes European exposure included within fixed maturity holdings: Corporate Sovereign Total December 31, 2011 Financial Sector Other Sectors (In millions) AAA $ 178 $ 26 $ 165 $ 369 AA 192 136 1 329 A 806 682 11 1,499 BBB 264 986 1,250 Non investment grade 2 142 144 Total fair value $ 1,442 $ 1,972 $ 177 $ 3,591 Total amortized cost $ 1,474 $ 1,790 $ 174 $ 3,438 88 Table of Contents European exposure is based on application of a country of risk methodology. Country of risk is derived from the issuing entitys management location, country of primary listing, revenue and reporting currency. As of December 31, 2011, securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion relate to Eurozone countries, which consist of member states of the European Union that use the Euro as their national currency. Of this amount, securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $392 million and $399 million pertain to Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. Ratings presented in the table above do not reflect downgrades that occurred subsequent to December 31, 2011 which impact securities with a fair value of $117 million. Short Term Investments The carrying value of the components of CNAs short term investment portfolio is presented in the following table: December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Short term investments: Commercial paper $ 411 $ 686 U.S. Treasury securities 903 903 Money market funds 45 94 Other 282 532 Total short term investments $ 1,641 $ 2,215 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS UPDATE For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please read Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this Report as well as some statements in periodic press releases and some oral statements made by our officials and our subsidiaries during presentations about us, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain the words expect, intend, plan, anticipate, estimate, believe, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. In addition, any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by management are also forward looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: Risks and uncertainties primarily affecting us and our insurance subsidiaries the risks and uncertainties associated with CNAs loss reserves, as outlined under Results of Operations by Business Segment CNA Financial Reserves Estimates and Uncertainties in this MD&A, including the sufficiency of the reserves and the possibility for future increases, which would be reflected in the results of operations in the period that the need for such adjustment is determined; the risk that the other parties to the transaction in which, subject to certain limitations, CNA ceded its legacy A&EP liabilities will not fully perform their obligations to CNA, the uncertainty in estimating loss reserves for A&EP liabilities and the possible continued exposure of CNA to liabilities for A&EP claims that are not covered under the terms of the transaction; 89 Table of Contents the performance of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts with CNA; the impact of competitive products, policies and pricing and the competitive environment in which CNA operates, including changes in CNAs book of business; product and policy availability and demand and market responses, including the level of ability to obtain rate increases and decline or non renew under priced accounts, to achieve premium targets and profitability and to realize growth and retention estimates; general economic and business conditions, including recessionary conditions that may decrease the size and number of CNAs insurance customers and create additional losses to CNAs lines of business, especially those that provide management and professional liability insurance, as well as surety bonds, to businesses engaged in real estate, financial services and professional services, and inflationary pressures on medical care costs, construction costs and other economic sectors that increase the severity of claims; conditions in the capital and credit markets, including continuing uncertainty and instability in these markets, as well as the overall economy, and their impact on the returns, types, liquidity and valuation of CNAs investments; conditions in the capital and credit markets that may limit CNAs ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms, as well as restrictions on the ability or willingness of the Company to provide additional capital support to CNA; the possibility of changes in CNAs ratings by ratings agencies, including the inability to access certain markets or distribution channels and the required collateralization of future payment obligations as a result of such changes, and changes in rating agency policies and practices; regulatory limitations, impositions and restrictions upon CNA, including the effects of assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds, other mandatory pooling arrangements and future assessments levied on insurance companies as well as the new federal financial regulatory reform of the insurance industry established by the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; increased operating costs and underwriting losses arising from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, as well as health care reform proposals at the state level; regulatory limitations and restrictions, including limitations upon CNAs ability to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries imposed by regulatory authorities, including regulatory capital adequacy standards; weather and other natural physical events, including the severity and frequency of storms, hail, snowfall and other winter conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as climate change, including effects on weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain and snow; regulatory requirements imposed by coastal state regulators in the wake of hurricanes or other natural disasters, including limitations on the ability to exit markets or to non renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies, as well as mandatory assessments to fund any shortfalls arising from the inability of quasi governmental insurers to pay claims; man made disasters, including the possible occurrence of terrorist attacks and the effect of the absence or insufficiency of applicable terrorism legislation on coverages; the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity or frequency of potential terrorist events, as well as the uncertainty as to CNAs ability to contain its terrorism exposure effectively; and the occurrence of epidemics. 90 Table of Contents Risks and uncertainties primarily affecting us and our energy subsidiaries the impact of changes in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and oil and gas price fluctuations on E&P activity, including possible write downs of the carrying value of natural gas and NGL properties and impairments of goodwill and reduced demand for offshore drilling services; the continuing effects of the Macondo well blowout, including, without limitation, the impact on drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, related delays in permitting activities and related regulations and market developments; government policies regarding exploration and development of oil and gas reserves; market conditions in the offshore oil and gas drilling industry, including utilization levels and dayrates; timing and duration of required regulatory inspections for offshore oil and gas drilling rigs; the risk of physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; the availability and cost of insurance; the impact of new pipelines or new gas supply sources on competition and basis spreads on Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline systems, which may impact its ability to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts and to sell short term capacity on its pipelines; the costs of maintaining and ensuring the integrity and reliability of our pipeline systems; the impact of current and future environmental laws and regulations and exposure to environmental liabilities including matters related to global climate change; regulatory issues affecting natural gas transmission, including ratemaking and other proceedings particularly affecting our gas transmission subsidiaries; the timing, cost, scope and financial performance of Boardwalk Pipelines recent and future growth projects, including the expansion into new product lines and geographic areas; and the development of additional natural gas reserves and changes in reserve estimates. Risks and uncertainties affecting us and our subsidiaries generally general economic and business conditions; changes in domestic and foreign political, social and economic conditions, including developing social and political unrest in Egypt and other parts of the Middle East; the impact of the global war on terrorism, current and future hostilities in the Middle East and elsewhere and future acts of terrorism; potential changes in accounting policies by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission or regulatory agencies for any of our subsidiaries industries which may cause us or our subsidiaries to revise their financial accounting and or disclosures in the future, and which may change the way analysts measure our and our subsidiaries business or financial performance; the impact of regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, judicial rulings and jury verdicts; 91 Table of Contents the results of financing efforts; by us and our subsidiaries, including any additional investments by us in our subsidiaries; the ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations to us and our subsidiaries; the consummation of contemplated transactions and agreements; the successful integration, transition and management of acquired businesses; the outcome of pending or future litigation, including any tobacco related suits to which we are or may become a party; possible casualty losses; the availability of indemnification by Lorillard and its subsidiaries for any tobacco related liabilities that we may incur as a result of tobacco related lawsuits or otherwise, as provided in the Separation Agreement; and potential future asset impairments. Developments in any of these or other areas of risk and uncertainty, which are more fully described elsewhere in this Report and our other filings with the SEC, could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be anticipated or projected. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in our expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward looking statement is based. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We are a large diversified holding company. As such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at December 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. We may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. Interest Rate Risk We have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. We monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes (inclusive of credit spread) by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. The Company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each securitys yield. Duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. Convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. The duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. The analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. 92 Table of Contents The evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. The analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. The sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on December 31, 2011 and 2010 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. The interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. Accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. Further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. Our debt is denominated in U.S. Dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. The impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $455 million and $425 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $505 million and $464 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. HighMount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $300 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in LIBOR on a portion of its $700 million variable rate credit facility. These swaps effectively fix the interest rate at an effective rate of 3.4%. At December 31, 2011, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $10 million on an annual basis. Equity Price Risk We have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. Equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. Equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with all other variables held constant. A model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the Company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. The result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. We have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. Our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds, Brazilian reais and the European Monetary Unit. The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar from their levels at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with all other variables held constant. Commodity Price Risk We have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. Commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. Commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The impact of a change in commodity prices on the Companys non trading commodity based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Although nearly all of the Companys customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the Company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 93 Table of Contents Boardwalk Pipeline has established credit policies in the pipeline tariffs which are intended to minimize credit risk in accordance with FERC policies and actively monitors this portion of its business. Boardwalk Pipelines credit exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by Boardwalk Pipeline to them, generally under PAL and no notice services. Natural gas price volatility can materially increase credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. If any significant customer of Boardwalk Pipeline should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe to Boardwalk Pipeline, this could have a material adverse effect on Boardwalk Pipelines business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of gas loaned out by Boardwalk Pipeline or owed to Boardwalk Pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 8.3 trillion British thermal units (TBtu). Assuming an average market price during December 2011 of $3.14 per million British thermal unit (MMBtu), the market value of this gas at December 31, 2011, would have been approximately $26 million. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of gas loaned out by Boardwalk Pipeline or owed to Boardwalk Pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 13.0 TBtu. Assuming an average market price during December 2010 of $4.21 per MMBtu, the market value of this gas at December 31, 2010, would have been approximately $55 million. The following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. Trading portfolio: Category of risk exposure: Fair Value Asset (Liability) Market Risk December 31 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Equity prices (1): Equity securities long $ 590 $ 616 $ (148 ) $ (154 ) short (9 ) (68 ) 2 17 Options purchased 33 30 18 3 written (23 ) (10 ) (2 ) 4 Interest rate (2): Fixed maturities long 109 231 (3 ) (10 ) short (250 ) 5 Short term investments 2,092 3,118 Other derivatives 8 (3 ) Note: The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. Adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 94 Table of Contents Other than trading portfolio: Category of risk exposure: Fair Value Asset (Liability) Market Risk December 31 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Equity prices (1): Equity securities: General accounts (a) $ 304 $ 440 $ (76 ) $ (110 ) Separate accounts 22 (5 ) Limited partnership investments 2,711 2,814 (242 ) (256 ) Interest rate (2): Fixed maturities (a) 39,931 37,583 (2,614 ) (2,417 ) Short term investments (a) 3,013 3,962 (11 ) (7 ) Other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 258 113 (11 ) (7 ) Interest rate swaps and other (b) (76 ) 13 17 Other derivative securities (1 ) (1 ) Separate accounts (a): Fixed maturities 381 405 (15 ) (18 ) Short term investments 32 18 Foreign exchange (3): Forwards short (7 ) 4 (26 ) (26 ) Commodities (4): Forwards short (b) 42 47 (43 ) (85 ) Note: The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) Certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. An assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(382) and $(362) at December 31, 2011 and 2010. (b) The market risk at December 31, 2011 and 2010 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 95 Table of Contents 
 
