FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20040319161649.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): March 15, 2004 NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 1-9608 36-3514169 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 10 B Glenlake Parkway Suite 600 Atlanta, Georgia 30328 (Address of Principal Executive (Zip Code) Offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (770) 670-2232 Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release captioned "Newell Rubbermaid Realigns Segment Reporting," dated March 15, 2004, issued by Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information in this Report, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K. On March 15, 2004, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it has changed its segment reporting to align public reporting with recent changes in management reporting. A copy of the Company's press release, dated March 15, 2004, is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of SEC Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. The Company has used the financial measures that are included in the press release for several years, both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures -- including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures" -- and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures: * enable investors and analysts to compare the current non-GAAP measures with the corresponding non-GAAP measures used in the past, and * permit investors to view the Company's performance using the same tools that Company management uses to evaluate the Company's past performance, reportable business segments and prospects for future performance and to gauge the Company's progress in achieving its stated goals. Operating income, excluding asset impairment, restructuring charges and other charges for each of the Company's five segments, continuing operations and discontinued operations and amounts of operating income, excluding asset impairment, restructuring charges and other charges as a percentage of sales for such respective segments, continuing operations and discontinued operations are also useful to investors because they provide information with respect to operating income related to continuing operations after the Company's restructuring plan is completed. While the Corporation believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC. Date: March 19, 2004 By: /s/ Dale L. Matschullat ------------------------------ Dale L. Matschullat Vice President - General Counsel & Corporate Secretary EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release captioned "Newell Rubbermaid Realigns Segment Reporting," dated March 15, 2004, issued by Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

EXHIBIT 99.1 ------------ PRESS RELEASE ------------- NEWELL RUBBERMAID REALIGNS SEGMENT REPORTING ATLANTA, MARCH 15, 2004 - Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NYSE: NWL) announced today that it has changed its segment reporting to align public reporting with recent changes in management reporting. The company will now report the following five segments: Cleaning & Organization, Tools & Hardware and Home Fashions, led by Chief Operating Officer James J. Roberts, and Office Products and Other, led by Chief Operating Officer Robert. S. Parker. The realignment schedules, which reflect discontinued operations, along with a listing of divisions in each segment are included in this press release and can also be found on the investor relations portion of the company's web site at www.newellrubbermaid.com. ABOUT NEWELL RUBBERMAID Newell Rubbermaid Inc., is a global marketer of consumer products with 2003 sales of over $7 billion and a powerful brand family including Sharpie{R}, Paper Mate{R}, Parker{R}, Waterman{R}, Colorific{R}, Rubbermaid{R}, Stain Shield{R}, Blue Ice{R}, TakeAlongs{R}, Roughneck{R}, Brute{R}, Calphalon{R}, Little Tikes{R}, Graco{R}, Levolor{R}, Kirsch{R}, Shur-Line{R}, BernzOmatic{R}, Goody{R}, Vise- Grip{R}, Quick-Grip{R}, IRWIN{R}, Lenox{R}, and Marathon{R}. The company, headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide. This press release and additional financial information about the company are available under the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.newellrubbermaid.com. Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Atlanta, GA Securities Listed NYSE Common Stock (Symbol: NWL) www.newellrubbermaid.com JESSE HERRON Vice President, Investor Relations 6833 Stalter Drive Rockford, IL 61108 Phone: 815-381-8150 SUSAN MASTEN Director, Public Relations 6833 Stalter Drive Rockford, IL 61108 Phone: 770-670-2215 NEWELL RUBBERMAID, INC. SEGMENTS AND DIVISIONS CLEANING & ORGANIZATION Rubbermaid Home Products Rubbermaid Food & Beverage Rubbermaid Commercial Rubbermaid Europe Rubbermaid Canada OFFICE PRODUCTS Sanford North America Sanford Europe Sanford Latin America Sanford Asia Pacific TOOLS & HARDWARE IRWIN North America IRWIN Latin America IRWIN Europe Lenox BernzOmatic Shur-Line Amerock HOME FASHIONS Levolor/Kirsch Home Decor Europe Swish UK OTHER Calphalon Cookware Europe Goody Graco Little Tikes DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Panex Frames Europe Mirro (formerly part of the Calphalon Division) Burnes Anchor


