FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20071130080636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On November 27, 2007, Steven G. Marton, President of the Office Products Group of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company"), was reassigned to the position of President -- Special Assignments. In addition, James J. Roberts, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Rubbermaid/Irwin Group has been appointed President of the Office Products Group and will retain his responsibility for the Cleaning, Organization & Dcor Group as President of that Group. These personnel changes will be effective December 1, 2007. A copy of the news release issued by the Company on November 30, 2007, describing these and other personnel changes is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced key senior management changes designed to further drive growth and innovation, while speeding the company's transformation into a marketer of consumer-driven brands.
ATLANTA, Nov. 30, 2007
James J. Roberts has been appointed Executive Group President  Office Products and Cleaning, Organization & Dcor. Roberts has been responsible for Newell Rubbermaid's Tools & Hardware and Cleaning, Organization & Dcor segments since 2003. He's led both of these businesses to significantly improved sales and operating income by driving operational excellence, supply chain restructuring, innovation and global branding. He will retain responsibility for Cleaning, Organization & Dcor, while assuming the additional responsibility for Office Products.
William A. Burke III will succeed Roberts as Group President  Tools & Hardware. He will also retain responsibility for the company's Lenox Industrial Products and Services business in North America until a successor is named at a later date. In the time since Burke took charge of Lenox in 2003, the brand has averaged double-digit sales growth and became a significant platform for international expansion through strong branding, innovation, end-user conversion and channel penetration.
Steven G. Marton has been named President  Special Assignments, after heading up the company's Office Products segment since 2004.
The management changes are in addition to the recently announced appointment of Jay D. Gould as Group President  Home & Family. All four executives will report directly to Newell Rubbermaid President and Chief Executive Officer Mark Ketchum.
"These business segment leaders have proven their ability to grow revenue and profit in challenging categories, while building brands, partnering with customers and suppliers, and building organizational capability," Ketchum said. "This is the right team to accomplish our evolution to a company of Brands That Matter delivering consistent shareholder returns."
TM
The statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of Project Acceleration, sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "expect," "project," "will," "believes," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail economies; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and Exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The company's strong portfolio of brands includes Sharpie, Paper Mate, DYMO, EXPO, Waterman, Parker, Rolodex, IRWIN, LENOX, BernzOmatic, Rubbermaid, Levolor, Graco, Calphalon and Goody. The company, with sales of approximately $6 billion, is headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., and employs approximately 22,500 employees worldwide. This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site .
About Newell Rubbermaid
www.newellrubbermaid.com
NWL-EX


