FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20090430090728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On April 30, 2009, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Company's press release, dated April 30, 2009, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding restructuring charges, as well as "Normalized" results are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. Another purpose for which the Company uses diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding restructuring charges, is as a performance goal
Table of Contents
that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring charges and one-time events such as tax benefits and impairment charges, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance.
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced its first quarter 2009 financial results.
ATLANTA, April 30, 2009
Net sales declined 16.0 percent to $1.20 billion in the first quarter, compared to $1.43 billion in the prior year. The reported sales decline is consistent with the updated guidance provided on March 24, 2009. Core sales were down 10 percent, approximately half of which was driven by tighter inventory management by customers and the other half due to lower consumer spending. Planned product line exits reduced sales by 5 percent and the acquisitions of Technical Concepts and Aprica together contributed about 4 percent sales growth. Foreign currency translation reduced sales by 5 percent.
"We effectively responded to sustained weakness in consumer demand and customer inventory reductions by aggressively managing our cost structure during the first quarter," said Mark Ketchum, president and chief executive officer of Newell Rubbermaid. "While top line softness continued at roughly the same pace experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008, our businesses successfully executed on their contingency plans to protect earnings and maximize cash flow. In addition, we further improved our financial flexibility during the quarter by successfully completing new financing arrangements in a volatile credit market."
Gross margin for the first quarter was 35.1 percent, up 90 basis points from last year, as the positive impact from product line exits and 2008 pricing initiatives more than offset the effect of weaker production volumes and unfavorable mix.
Excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $30.5 million in 2009 and $18.4 million in 2008, operating income was $111.3 million in the first quarter 2009, compared to $129.5 million in the prior year. This decline reflects the impact of the sales decline partially offset by improved gross margins and operating expense reductions.
Normalized earnings, which exclude Project Acceleration restructuring costs, were $0.20 per diluted share, ahead of the company's guidance and compared to $0.26 per diluted share in the first quarter 2008. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Income from continuing operations, as reported on a GAAP basis, was $33.7 million, or $0.12 per diluted share. This compares to $57.8 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, in the first quarter 2008.
Operating cash flow was a use of $11.2 million, compared to a use of $123.2 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $32.4 million in the first quarter, compared to $40.0 million in the prior year.
 
 
A reconciliation of the first quarter 2009 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2009 Full Year Guidance
The company reiterated its guidance for a net sales decline of 10 to 15 percent in 2009, including a core sales decline in the mid to high single digit percent range. The company continues to expect a 4 to 6 percent sales decline from product line exits and a 2 to 4 percent sales decline from foreign currency translation. Acquisitions are expected to contribute about 1 percent of sales growth.
The company continues to expect normalized earnings of $1.00 to $1.25 per diluted share and operating cash flow in excess of $400 million for the full year, including approximately $100 million in restructuring cash payments.
2009 Second Quarter Guidance
The company anticipates net sales will decline about 20 percent for the second quarter 2009. Continued aggressive management of inventory by retailers and weak consumer spending are expected to reduce core sales in the high single digit percent range. Product line exits are projected to reduce sales by 6 to 8 percent, and foreign currency translation is expected to have a negative impact on sales of 4 to 6 percent.
The company expects normalized earnings of $0.30 to $0.37 per diluted share.
A reconciliation of the second quarter and full year 2009 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
 
 
Conference Call
The company's first quarter 2009 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, April 30, 2009, at 10:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of approximately $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts
TM
and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, inflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail economies in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user
 
 
brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; our ability to refinance short term debt on terms acceptable to us, particularly given the recent turmoil and uncertainty in the global credit markets; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
[GRAPHIC APPEARS HERE] [GRAPHIC APPEARS HERE] [GRAPHIC APPEARS HERE]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2009
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 


