FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20091209162848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On December 9, 2009, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") announced that Magnus Nicolin would no longer serve as the Companys President, Newell Rubbermaid Europe, Middle East & Africa and Newell Rubbermaid Asia Pacific. Mr. Nicolins service in this position and employment with the Company will cease as of December 31, 2009. A copy of the news release issued by the Company describing this and other personnel changes is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 News Release dated December 9, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today moved to further streamline and focus the execution of its global growth strategy by promoting Eduardo Senf to President, Newell Rubbermaid International, beginning Jan. 1. Senf, age 50, is currently President of Newell Rubbermaid Latin America. This newly created position is the consolidation of two current positions that encompass all regions outside N. America. Senf will be responsible for managing regional operations and driving new revenue expansion.
ATLANTA, Dec. 9, 2009
"Eduardo is a dynamic leader with a proven ability to grow brands in challenging international markets and an exceptional ability to inspire employee followership," said Mark Ketchum, President and Chief Executive Officer of Newell Rubbermaid. "Eduardo is the right executive to take our global growth strategy to the next level."
In the company's Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC) regions, Senf will succeed Magnus Nicolin, who is leaving Newell Rubbermaid to pursue other interests. During his three years at the company, Nicolin is credited with laying the foundation for the company's EMEA regional platform, aligning it with Newell Rubbermaid's overall global vision and positioning it for future growth.
"We thank Magnus for his contributions to Newell Rubbermaid and we wish him well in his new endeavors," Ketchum said.
Senf joined Newell Rubbermaid in 2004 as President of the company's Rubbermaid and Irwin businesses in Latin America and the Caribbean. He led the region to achieve double-digit income growth while strengthening the company's Latin America platform through aggressive branding campaigns and channel marketing. He was named President of Newell Rubbermaid Latin America in Jan. 2008. A native of Brazil, Senf has dual bachelor's degrees in mechanical engineering and production engineering from Faculdade de Engenharia Industrial  FEI in Sao Paulo. He completed his postgraduate studies in finance and business at the University of Anahuac in Mexico.
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of approximately $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts and Aprica.
About Newell Rubbermaid
TM
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com


