FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20090416162315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
In its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company"), stated that effective for the first quarter of 2009, the business units within its Cleaning, Organization & Dcor segment had been reorganized. The Rubbermaid Commercial Products business unit was transferred to the newly named Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment, and the Rubbermaid Food & Home Products and Dcor business units were transferred to the Home & Family segment. The Dcor business within the Home & Family segment also now includes the Company's Amerock branded business, which was previously part of the Tools & Hardware segment. As a result, beginning with the first quarter of 2009, the Company's financial statements will reflect the following three reportable segments: Office Products; Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products; and Home & Family.
On April 16, 2009, the Company issued a press release to provide investors with retrospectively revised financial schedules reflecting the change in the Company's reportable segments. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. While investors are being provided retrospectively revised financial schedules reflecting the change in the Company's reportable segments described above, the Company has not in any way revised or restated its historical financial statements for any period.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that "normalized" operating income, which excludes restructuring charges and one-time events such as impairment charges, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance.
The information in this Item 7.01, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
(c) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATLANTA, April 16, 2009  Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today released updated historical segment financial data to reflect the realignment and consolidation of its business segments, effective the first quarter of 2009. As previously announced, the company will report three operating segments going forward: Home & Family, Office Products, and Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products. This change was designed to streamline structural costs and better align businesses by target consumer and route to market.
The global business units (GBUs) that formerly comprised the Cleaning, Organization & Dcor segment have been integrated into two of the three remaining segments. The Rubbermaid Commercial Products GBU is now part of the Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment. The Rubbermaid Food & Home Products and Dcor GBUs are now included in the Home & Family segment. In addition, the Amerock brand, which was previously part of the Tools & Hardware segment, has been integrated into the Dcor GBU.
The updated historical segment financial data is attached and can also be found in the Quarterly Earnings section of the company's investor relations Web site at . While investors are being provided retrospectively with revised segment financial information reflecting the prospective changes in reportable business segments, the company has in no way revised or restated its historical financial statements for any period.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
In addition, Newell Rubbermaid announced that its first quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. ET on April 30 rather than the previously announced 9:00 a.m. ET. To listen to a live webcast of the call, please visit Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of over $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts
TM
and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


