FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20091113141345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On November 10, 2009, Michael B. Polk, President of Unilever Americas, was elected to the Board of Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company"). He will serve as a Class II Director of the Company and was not selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other persons. Mr. Polk was also appointed to the Nominating/Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Polk will receive the compensation for non-employee directors described in the Companys Proxy Statement dated April 3, 2009. A copy of the news release announcing Mr. Polks election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated November 11, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced that Michael B. Polk has been elected to the company's board of directors, raising the total number of directors to 12. Polk, 49, is President of Unilever Americas with responsibility for $18 billion in combined North America and Latin America sales.
ATLANTA, Nov. 11, 2009
Since joining Unilever in 2005, Polk has streamlined the company's Americas organization and optimized the diverse mix of food, hygiene and personal care items in Unilever's product portfolio. He is credited with accelerating growth and profitability by improving efficiencies and encouraging the flow of ideas and product innovations across borders. Under Polk's leadership, Unilever was named Wal-Mart's Supplier of the Year in 2008.
"Michael brings outstanding global marketing, consumer innovation and operations leadership to our board," said William D. Marohn, Chairman of Newell Rubbermaid's board of directors. "He has overseen billion-dollar brands, managed portfolios of diverse product categories and navigated complex geographiesall very relevant to the growth and transformation of Newell Rubbermaid."
"Our organization will greatly benefit from Michael's insights and experience," said Mark Ketchum, Newell Rubbermaid's President and Chief Executive Officer. "His strategy of achieving consumer intimacy on a global scale matches our own brand-building initiatives."
Before Unilever, Polk held positions of increasing global responsibility during 18 years at Altria Group, culminating in the role of Group Vice President and President, Nabisco Biscuit & Snacks with a $5.5 billion portfolio of brands. He was responsible for the integration of Nabisco into Kraft Foods, which required merging Nabisco's in-store merchandising system, leveraging Kraft's branding power and restructuring manufacturing operations. While at Altria he also led Kraft's Asia/Pacific Region and Kraft's U.S. Post Cereal Division.
Polk began his career at Procter & Gamble in industrial engineering and product development. He is a board member of the Retail Industry Leadership Association, and has been named to magazine's "CEOs of Tomorrow" list and the "Power 50" list in . A graduate of Cornell University, he also holds an MBA from Harvard University.
Business Week
Supermarket News
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of approximately $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts and Aprica.
About Newell Rubbermaid
TM
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
NWL-EX


