FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20090129075504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On January 29, 2009, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The Company's press release, dated January 29, 2009, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding restructuring charges, as well as "Normalized" results are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends and further investment in future growth initiatives. Another purpose for which the Company uses diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding restructuring charges, is as a performance goal that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring charges and one-time events such as tax benefits and impairment charges is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance.
Table of Contents
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced its fourth quarter 2008 financial results.
ATLANTA, January 29, 2009
Net sales declined 11.6 percent to $1.45 billion in the fourth quarter, compared to $1.64 billion in the prior year. The reported sales decline was consistent with the updated guidance provided by the company on December 17, 2008. The acquisitions of Technical Concepts and Aprica together contributed 3.8 percent of sales growth. The impact from previously announced product line exits accounted for approximately 3 percent of the sales decline, while foreign currency translation reduced sales by approximately 4 percent.
"Our results reflect the dramatic downturn in the global economy during the last two months of 2008," said Mark Ketchum, president and chief executive officer of Newell Rubbermaid. "Weakness in consumer spending, compounded by inventory reductions at retail, negatively impacted both sales and productivity. As previously announced, we are acting quickly and decisively to significantly reduce our cost structure and drive operational initiatives to protect earnings and maximize cash flow in 2009."
Newell Rubbermaid also announced a 50 percent reduction in its quarterly dividend to $0.105 per share. The Board of Directors currently anticipates maintaining this dividend rate throughout 2009, for an annualized dividend level of $0.42 per share. The resulting dividend yield and payout ratio is more closely aligned with the company's industry peers and the S&P 500.
"The Board's decision to reduce the dividend is prudent in order to better position our company to protect its investment grade credit rating and maintain continuing access to credit markets," stated William Marohn, Chairman of Newell Rubbermaid. "We fully recognize that the dividend is an important element of return for shareholders, and we did not take the decision to reduce it lightly. However, we strongly believe this decision is in the long-term best interest of the shareholders and the company."
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 30.0 percent, down 510 basis points from last year, as positive pricing was more than offset by weaker sales, lower manufacturing volumes, unfavorable mix and cost inflation.
Excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $19.0 million in 2008 and $32.3 million in 2007, and one-time items, operating income was $80.3 million in the fourth quarter 2008, compared to $205.2 million in the prior year. This decline reflects the gross margin decline partially offset by operating expense reductions.
"One-time items" in the fourth quarter 2008 include non-cash impairment charges of $299.4 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, and tax benefits of $26.4 million, or $0.09 per diluted share. The non-cash impairment charges were required to write down to fair value goodwill related to
 
 
certain business units included in the company's Tools & Hardware and Office Products segments. (A reconciliation of the results "as reported" to results "normalized" is included below.)
Normalized earnings, which exclude Project Acceleration restructuring costs and one-time items, were $0.11 per diluted share, slightly above the high end of the company's revised guidance and compared to $0.47 per diluted share in the fourth quarter 2007.
Income from continuing operations, as reported on a GAAP basis, was $(256.7) million, or $(0.93) per diluted share, which includes the non-cash impairment charges of $299.4 million. This compares to $101.0 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter 2007.
Operating cash flow was $211.9 million, compared to $199.1 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $35.7 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $47.3 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the fourth quarter 2008 and last year's results is as follows:
 
Twelve Months Results
Net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 increased 1.0 percent to $6.47 billion, compared to $6.41 billion in the prior year. The acquisitions of Technical Concepts and Aprica together contributed 3.2 percent of sales growth. Mid single-digit internal sales growth in the Home & Family segment was more than offset by a high single-digit decline in the Tools & Hardware segment and low single-digit declines in the Cleaning, Organization & Dcor and Office Products segments. Foreign currency contributed 0.8 percent of sales growth.
Gross margin was 32.8 percent, or 240 basis points lower than the prior year, as positive pricing and savings from Project Acceleration were more than offset by significantly higher cost inflation and the fourth quarter impact of weaker sales, lower manufacturing volumes and unfavorable mix.
Normalized earnings, which exclude Project Acceleration restructuring costs and one-time items, were $1.22 per diluted share, compared to $1.82 per diluted share in the prior year. "One-time items" for the twelve months 2008 include those described above for the fourth quarter 2008, as
 
 
well as the net of tax impact of the company's purchase of a call option with respect to its $250 million of 6.35% Reset notes due 2028 for approximately $52 million in the third quarter 2008, or approximately $0.13 per diluted share, and a tax benefit of $3.5 million in the third quarter 2008, or $0.01 per diluted share. "One-time items" in 2007 consisted of tax benefits of $41.3 million, or $0.15 per diluted share. (A reconciliation of the results "as reported" to results "normalized" is included below.)
Income from continuing operations, as reported on a GAAP basis, was $(51.8) million, or $(0.19) per diluted share, which includes the non-cash impairment charges of $299.4 million, compared to $479.2 million, or $1.72 per diluted share, in the prior year.
Operating cash flow was $454.9 million, compared to $655.3 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $157.8 million, compared to $157.3 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the full year 2008 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2009 Full Year Guidance
The company expects reported net sales to decline 10 to 15 percent in 2009. Acquisitions are expected to contribute approximately 1 percent of sales growth, while product line exits are expected to reduce sales by 4 to 6 percent. Foreign currency translation is expected to reduce sales by 2 to 4 percent. Net sales in the Home & Family segment are anticipated to be better than total company guidance above, while Cleaning, Organization & Dcor, Office Products and Tools & Hardware segment sales are anticipated to be in line with company guidance.
The company expects normalized earnings of $1.00 to $1.25 per diluted share.
Operating cash flow is projected to be in excess of $400 million for the full year, including approximately $100 million in restructuring cash payments. The company expects capital expenditures of approximately $150 million.
 
 
2009 First Quarter Guidance
The company expects net sales to decline in the low to mid teens percentage range for the first quarter 2009. Acquisitions are expected to contribute approximately 4 percent of sales growth, while product line exits are expected to reduce sales by 4 to 6 percent. Foreign currency translation will have a negative impact on sales of 3 to 5 percent.
The company expects normalized earnings of $0.07 to $0.12 per diluted share.
A reconciliation of the first quarter and full year 2009 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
Conference Call
The company's fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, January 29, 2009, at 9:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of over $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, inflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail economies in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; our ability to refinance short term debt on terms acceptable to us, particularly given the recent turmoil and uncertainty in the global credit markets; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and Exhibit 99.1, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended December 31, 2008
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 


