FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20090330172651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Convertible Senior Notes
On March 30, 2009, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") completed a registered underwritten public offering of $345 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% convertible senior notes due 2014 (the "Notes") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), dated March 24, 2009, among the Company, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc.
The sale of the Notes was made pursuant to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-149887), including the prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus contained therein dated March 25, 2008, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
The Company issued the Notes under an indenture dated as of November 1, 1995 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of March 30, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), each between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.)), as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Notes) are filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this report and are incorporated herein by reference. Terms of the Indenture and the Notes issued pursuant to the Indenture are described in the section of the Prospectus Supplement relating to the Notes entitled "Description of Notes", which is incorporated herein by reference. The following description of the Notes and the Indenture is a summary and is not meant to be a complete description of the Notes and the Indenture. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the detailed provisions of the Indenture.
The Notes bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2009. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2014, unless earlier repurchased by the Company or converted. The Notes are convertible in certain circumstances and during certain periods (as described in the Supplemental Indenture) at an initial conversion rate of 116.1980 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $8.61 per share), subject to adjustment in certain circumstances as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture. The initial conversion price represents a conversion premium of 30% over the closing price of our common stock on March 24, 2009 of $6.62 per share. The Notes are convertible under certain circumstances and during certain periods into (i) cash, up to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes subject to conversion and (ii) cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination thereof (at the Company's discretion) in respect of the remainder (if any) of the Company's conversion obligation.
Upon a fundamental change (as described in Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture), holders may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. The Notes are not redeemable at the Company's option prior to maturity.
The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of all the Notes, and the interest accrued on such Notes, if any, to be immediately due and payable. In the case of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the Company or a principal subsidiary, the principal amount of the securities together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon will automatically be and become immediately due and payable.
In connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes as described in response to Item 1.01 of this Current Report, the following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-149887) relating to the Notes offering: (i) the Underwriting Agreement (Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report), (ii) the Base Indenture (Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report), (iii) the Supplemental Indenture (Exhibit 4.2 to this Current Report) and (iv) the legal opinion of Schiff Hardin LLP (Exhibit 5.1 to this Current Report).
Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the Notes, on March 24, 2009, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the "Note Hedge Transactions") and warrant transactions (the "Warrant Transactions") with counterparties that are affiliates of the representatives of the underwriters of the Notes. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to the Notes, approximately 40.09 million shares of the Company's common stock. Under the warrant transactions, we have sold to the counterparties warrants to purchase, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, up to approximately 40.09 million shares of the Company's common stock.
The Note Hedge Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversion of the Notes by providing the Company with the option, subject to certain exceptions, to acquire shares of the Company's common stock or the cash value thereof or a combination thereof upon settlement of conversion of the Notes. However, the Warrant Transactions will result in dilution to the extent that the market value of the Company's common stock, as measured during the measurement period at maturity under the terms of the warrants, exceeds the strike price of the warrants, which is initially $11.585 per share, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The net cost of the Note Hedge Transactions to the Company, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $36.22 million.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the Note Hedge Transactions, if the Company notifies the counterparties of any conversion of the Notes, the counterparties are required to deliver to the Company, in most circumstances, the number of shares of the Company's common stock that the Company is obligated to deliver to the holders of the Notes with respect to the conversion, or the cash value thereof, or a combination of cash and common stock, in each case in the proportions delivered to the holders on such conversion.
The warrants expire over a period of seventy-five trading days beginning on June 13, 2014 and are European-style warrants (exercisable only upon expiration). For each warrant that is exercised, the Company will deliver to the counterparties a number of shares of the Company's common stock equal to the amount by which the settlement price exceeds the strike price, divided by the settlement price, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares.
The counterparties to the Note Hedge Transactions and the Warrant Transactions have advised the Company that they or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to the Company's common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to the Company's common stock and/or or by selling or purchasing the Company's common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Notes and prior to maturity (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of the common stock or the Notes, which could affect the ability of holders of the Notes to convert the Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes, it could affect the number of shares and the value of the consideration that a holder will receive upon conversion of the Notes.
The warrants issued pursuant to the Warrant Transactions were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act because the offer and sale did not involve a public offering. There were no underwriting commissions or discounts in connection with the sale of the warrants.
The summary of each of the Note Hedge Transactions and each of the Warrant Transactions is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the related agreements, which are included as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information required by Item 2.03 relating to the Notes and the Indenture is contained in Item 1.01 above and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
The information required by Item 3.02 relating to the Warrant Transactions is contained in Item 1.01 under the section "Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions" and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
March 24, 2009
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.      As Representatives of the several Underwriters c/o MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the "") $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the ""). In addition, the Company has granted to the Underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional $45,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the "" and, together with the Firm Notes, the ""), as provided in . Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("") and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("") have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes. To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on other than you, the terms Representatives and Underwriters as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters. The terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires.
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Firm Notes
Optional Notes
Notes
Section 2
Merrill Lynch
JPM
Representatives
Schedule A
     The Notes will be convertible on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the base indenture (the ""), dated as of November 1, 1995, between Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (formerly Newell Co.) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company N.A., formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture relating to the Notes (the "," and together with the Base Indenture, the ""). As used herein, "Conversion Shares" means the fully paid, nonassessable shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company (the "") to be received by the holders of the Notes upon conversion of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Notes and the Indenture. The Notes will be convertible initially at a conversion rate of 116.1980 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Common Stock
     The Company hereby confirms its engagement of Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. ("") as, and FBR hereby confirms its agreement with the Company to render services as, a "qualified independent underwriter", within the meaning of Section (b)(15) of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "
FBR
NASD Conduct
 
") with respect to the offering and sale of the Notes. FBR, solely in its capacity as the qualified independent underwriter and not otherwise, is referred to herein as the "." The yield at which the Notes will be sold to the public shall not be lower than the yield recommended by the QIU.
Rules
QIU
     The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters and the QIU as follows:
Section 1. Representations and Warranties of the Company.
     The Company hereby represents and warrants to, and covenants with, each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-149887), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of the Notes. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), is hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement." Any preliminary prospectus supplement to the Base Prospectus that describes the Notes and the offering thereof and is used prior to filing of the Final Prospectus is hereinafter referred to as, together with the Base Prospectus, a "preliminary prospectus." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus relating to the Notes that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto (the ""). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act; any reference to any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Exchange Act, and incorporated by reference in such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to refer to and include any annual report of the Company filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the effective date of the Registration Statement that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement.
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Exchange Act
Execution Time
     (b) The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act. The Company has complied to the Commission's satisfaction with all requests of the Commission for additional or supplemental information. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect, the Commission has not issued any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus and no proceedings for
Compliance with Registration and Exchange Act Requirements
.
 
such purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission
.
     Each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus when filed complied in all material respects with the Securities Act. Each of the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, at each time of effectiveness and at the date hereof, complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. The Prospectus (including any Prospectus wrapper), as amended or supplemented, as of its date, at the date hereof, at the time of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, at the Closing Date (as defined herein) and at any Subsequent Closing Date (as defined herein), did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties set forth in the two immediately preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, or the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements thereto, based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in hereof. There is no contract or other document required to be described in the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement that has not been described or filed as required.
Section 8
     The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and, when read together with the Disclosure Package (as defined herein), none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and, when read together with the Disclosure Package (as defined herein), will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (c) The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Base Prospectus and any preliminary prospectus, as amended or supplemented, (ii) the Final Term Sheet (as defined herein), (iii) any other issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and (iv) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of 7:30 a.m., New York time, on the day
Disclosure Package
.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
after the execution and delivery of this Agreement (the ""), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in hereof.
Applicable Time
Section 8
     (d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement relating to the Notes that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(g)(2)) of the Securities Act, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) at the Execution Time of this Agreement (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (iv)), the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement", as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form, and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that initially became effective within three years of the date hereof. If at any time when Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the Registration Statement or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the "Registration Statement" shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Company is Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
bona fide
     (e) (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
.
 
     (f) Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, including any prospectus or prospectus supplement that is or becomes part of the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
.
Section 8
     (g) The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the headings "Description of Notes" and "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus
.
     (h) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the last Subsequent Closing Date (as defined below) and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (as defined herein), the Final Term Sheet (as defined herein) or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
.
     (i) This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement
.
     (j) The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended ("the "); on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly and validly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Indenture conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Authorization of the Indenture
.
Trust Indenture Act
     (k) The Notes have been duly and validly authorized by the Company for issuance, offer and sale pursuant to this Agreement; when the Notes are
Authorization of the Notes
.
 
executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement on the respective Closing Date (assuming due authentication of the Notes by the Trustee), such Notes will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Notes will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
     (l) The Conversion Shares have been duly authorized and reserved and, when issued upon conversion of the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and the Indenture, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and the issuance of such shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
Authorization of the Conversion Shares
.
     (m) There are no stamp or other issuance or transfer taxes or duties or other similar fees or charges under federal law, the laws of any state, or any political subdivisions thereof, or any other U.S. or non-U.S. governmental authority required to be paid in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the issuance or sale by the Company of the Notes or upon the issuance of Common Stock upon the conversion thereof.
No Stamp or Transfer Taxes
.
     (n) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, or any persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities otherwise registered for sale under the Securities Act, other than securities registered on Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights
.
     (o) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are material to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, other than those in the ordinary course of business, and (iii) except for regular dividends on the Company's common stock or preferred securities in amounts per share that are consistent with past practices or the applicable charter document or supplement thereto, respectively, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock..
Material Changes or Material Transactions
.
     (p) Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the financial statements (which term as used in this Agreement includes the related notes thereto) and supporting schedules filed with the Commission as a part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and included or incorporated by
Independent Accountants
.
 
reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, is an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as required by the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and under the applicable rules and regulations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
     (q) The financial statements filed with the Commission as a part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. The supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein. Such financial statements and supporting schedules comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States ("") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements or supporting schedules are required to be included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. The financial data set forth in the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus fairly present the information set forth therein on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The Company's ratios of earnings to fixed charges set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been calculated in compliance with Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
Preparation of the Financial Statements
.
GAAP
     (r) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, or the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise (a "").
Due Incorporation and Qualification
Material Adverse Effect
     (s) . Each subsidiary of the Company that is a significant subsidiary as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the Securities Act (each a "") has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation (or, in the case of a Significant Subsidiary that is not a corporation, duly formed or organized, as the case may be, as the applicable type of entity) in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (or, if applicable, formation or organization), has the power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation (or applicable type of entity) to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the
Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiary
 
conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock (or, in the case of a Significant Subsidiary that is not a corporation, the partnership, membership, joint venture or other ownership or equity interests), owned directly or indirectly by the Company, of each Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is so owned free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.
     (t) The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be). The Common Stock (including the Conversion Shares) conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and have been issued in compliance with federal and state securities laws. None of the outstanding shares of Common Stock were issued in violation of any preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other similar rights to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company. There are no authorized or outstanding options, warrants, preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other rights to purchase, or equity or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any capital stock of the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than those accurately described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The description of the Company's stock option, stock bonus and other stock plans or arrangements, and the options or other rights granted thereunder, set forth or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus accurately and fairly presents the information required to be shown with respect to such plans, arrangements, options and rights.
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
.
     (u) The Notes conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Conformance of Notes
.
     (v) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("") under its charter or by-laws (or, in the case of a Significant Subsidiary that is not a corporation, the provisions of the governing or organizational documents, as the case may be, applicable to that type of entity), (ii) in Default under any contract indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or such Significant Subsidiary is a party or by which it may be bound (including, without limitation, the Company's senior debt securities and the related senior indenture dated as of November 1, 1995, between Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (formerly Newell Co.) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank; formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as trustee, relating to the senior debt securities, and the Credit Agreement dated as of November 14, 2005 by and among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
.
Default
 
sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas and Citicorp USA, Inc., as co-syndication agents, and each of the lenders signatory thereto) or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such Significant Subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except with respect to clause (ii) only, for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existing Instrument
     The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Notes and the use of proceeds from the sale of the Notes as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds") (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary (or, in the case of a subsidiary that is not a corporation, the provisions of the governing or organizational documents, as the case may be, applicable to that type of entity), (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of its or their properties. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("").
FINRA
     (w) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or has as the subject thereof any officer or director or, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries), which will, in the opinion of the Company, result in any Material Adverse Effect or will materially and adversely affect the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement. There are no contracts or documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries which are required to be filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Registration Statement by the Securities Act or by the regulations under such statute which have not been so filed or incorporated by reference.
Legal Proceedings; Contracts
.
 
     (x) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each subsidiary possess such valid and current licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, and neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such license, certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits
.
     (y) The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings. The Company has made appropriate provisions in the applicable financial statements referred to in above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance
.
Section 1(q)
     (z) The Company has been advised of the rules and requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""). The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act and will conduct its business in a manner so that it will not become subject to the Investment Company Act.
Company Not an "Investment Company"
.
Investment Company Act
     (aa) The Company is subject to and in full compliance with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Compliance with Reporting Requirements
.
     (bb) No subsidiary of the Company is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends or other distributions to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Restrictions on Dividends or Other Distributions
.
     (cc) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
.
     (dd) There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required to be
Related Party Transactions
.
 
described in the preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
     (ee) . The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Company and its subsidiaries' internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the Company and its subsidiaries are not aware of any material weakness in their internal controls over financial reporting.
Internal Controls and Procedures
     (ff) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain an effective system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act) that is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, and such disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Disclosure Controls
.
     (gg) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, with respect to the stock options (the "") granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (the ""), (i) each Stock Option designated by the Company or the relevant subsidiary of the Company at the time of grant as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the "") by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company or the relevant subsidiary of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Company Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("") and any other exchange on which the securities of the Company or the relevant subsidiary of the Company are traded, (iv) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to or greater than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the consolidated financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and
Stock Options
.
Stock Options
Company Stock Plans
Code
Grant Date
NYSE
 
disclosed in the Company's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has knowingly granted, and there is no and has been no policy or practice of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of granting, Stock Options prior to, or otherwise coordinating the grant of Stock Options with, the release or other public announcement of material information regarding the Company or its subsidiaries or their results of operations or prospects.
     (hh) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
.
FCPA
     (ii) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
.
Money Laundering Laws
     (jj) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws
.
OFAC
     (kk) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, and other than as described or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent decree or judgment, relating to pollution or
Environmental Laws
 
protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, ""), (B) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, licenses, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or, to the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigations or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
Environmental Laws
     (ll) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries are insured by recognized and financially sound institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are generally deemed adequate and customary for their businesses including, without limitation, policies covering real and personal property owned or leased by the Company and its subsidiaries against theft, damage, destruction, acts of terrorism or vandalism and earthquakes. All policies of insurance insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause, except where such denial or reservation would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any subsidiary will not be able (i) to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (ii) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct its business as now conducted and at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Insurance
     (mm) . No labor problem or dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or is threatened or imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing, threatened or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that, in either case, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
Labor Matters
     (nn) In the ordinary course of its business, the Company conducts a periodic review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated costs and liabilities (including, without limitation,
Periodic Review of Costs of Environmental Compliance
.
 
any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties). On the basis of such review and the amount of its established reserves, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs and liabilities would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (oo) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Brokers
.
     (pp) There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications. There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company or any of the members of any of their families, except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
     (qq) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company (i) does not have any material lending or other relationship with any bank or lending affiliate of any Underwriter and (ii) does not intend to use any of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder to repay any outstanding debt owed to any affiliate of any Underwriter.
Lending Relationship
     (rr) . The Company has not sustained a loss on account of fire, flood, accident, terrorism or other calamity which materially and adversely affects the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, regardless of whether or not such loss shall have been insured.
Catastrophic Events
     (ss) . The Notes, when issued, authenticated and delivered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and the Indenture, will be excluded or exempted under the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act.
Commodity Exchange Act
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
Section 2. Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
     (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters the Firm Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company
The Firm Notes
.
 
the respective aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite their names on . The purchase price per Firm Note to be paid by the several Underwriters to the Company shall be 97.0% of the aggregate principal amount thereof.
Schedule A
     (b) Delivery of the Firm Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Winston & Strawn LLP, Chicago, Illinois, 60601 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York time, on March 302009, or such other time and date not later than 1:30 p.m., New York time, on April 13, 2009 as the Representatives shall designate by notice to the Company (the time and date of such closing are referred to as the "").
The Closing Date
.
,
Closing Date
     (c) In addition, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Underwriters to purchase, severally and not jointly, up to an $45,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Optional Notes from the Company at the same price as the purchase price per Firm Note to be paid by the Underwriters for the Firm Notes. The option granted hereunder may be exercised at any time and from time to time upon notice by the Representatives to the Company, which notice may be given at any time within 13 days from the date of this Agreement. Such notice shall set forth (i) the amount (which shall be an integral multiple of $1,000 in aggregate principal amount) of Optional Notes as to which the Underwriters are exercising the option, (ii) the names and denominations in which the Optional Notes are to be registered and (iii) the time, date and place at which such Optional Notes will be delivered (which time and date may be simultaneous with, but not earlier than, the Closing Date; and in such case the term "Closing Date" shall refer to the time and date of delivery of the Firm Notes and the Optional Notes). Each time and date of delivery, if subsequent to the Closing Date, is hereinafter referred to as a "Subsequent Closing Date" and shall be determined by the Representatives and shall not be earlier than three nor later than five full business days after delivery of such notice of exercise. If any Optional Notes are to be purchased, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase the aggregate principal amount of Optional Notes (subject to such adjustments to eliminate fractional amounts as the Representatives may determine) that bears the same proportion to the total aggregate principal amount of Optional Notes to be purchased as the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth on opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes. As used herein, the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City.
The Optional Notes; any Subsequent Closing Date
.
Schedule A
     (d) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has been executed and the Registration Statement has been declared effective as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes
.
     (e) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date (and, if applicable, at any Subsequent Closing Date) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company. It is understood that the Representatives have been
Payment for the Notes
.
 
authorized, for their own account and the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Firm Notes and any Optional Notes the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives, individually and not as a Representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (f) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters the Firm Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The Company shall also deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters, the Optional Notes the Underwriters have agreed to purchase at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. Delivery of the Firm Notes and the Optional Notes shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters. The Company is advised by the Representatives that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement is entered into as in the Representatives' judgment is advisable.
Delivery of the Notes
.
     (g) Not later than 3:00 p.m. on the second business day in New York City following the date of this Agreement, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered, copies of the Prospectus in such quantities and at such places as the Representatives shall request.
Delivery of Prospectus to the Underwriters
.
Section 3. Covenants of the Company.
     The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) During the period beginning at the Applicable Time and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date, as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the Exchange Act), the Company shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not file or use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object.
Representatives' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements
.
Prospectus Delivery Period
     (b) After the date of this Agreement, the Company shall promptly advise the Representatives in writing (i) when the Registration Statement, if not
Securities Act Compliance
.
 
effective at the Execution Time, shall have become effective, (ii) of the receipt of any comments of, or requests for additional or supplemental information from, the Commission, (iii) of the time and date of any filing of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (iv) of the time and date that any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement becomes effective and (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of any proceedings to remove, suspend or terminate from listing or quotation the Common Stock from any securities exchange upon which it is listed for trading or included or designated for quotation, or of the threatening or initiation of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company shall use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or notice of prevention or suspension of such use. If the Commission shall enter any such stop order or issue any such notice at any time, the Company will use its best efforts to obtain the lifting or reversal of such order or notice at the earliest possible moment, or, subject to , will file an amendment to the Registration Statement or will file a new registration statement and use its best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable. Additionally, the Company agrees that it shall comply with the provisions of Rules 424(b) and 430B, as applicable, under the Securities Act, including with respect to the timely filing of documents thereunder, and will use its reasonable efforts to confirm that any filings made by the Company under such Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act were received in a timely manner by the Commission.
Section 3(a)
     (c) If, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if in the opinion of the Representatives it is otherwise necessary or advisable to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file a new registration statement containing the Prospectus, in order to comply with law, including in connection with the delivery of the Prospectus, the Company agrees to (i) notify the Representatives of any such event or condition and (ii) promptly prepare (subject to and hereof), file with the Commission (and use its best efforts to have any amendment to the Registration Statement or any new registration statement to be declared effective) and furnish at its own expense to the Underwriters and to dealers, amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or any new registration statement, necessary in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not
Amendments and Supplements to the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus and Other Securities Act Matters
.
Sections 3(a)
3(c)
 
misleading or so that the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with law.
     (d) The Company will prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Notes and the offering thereof, in the form approved by the Representatives and attached as hereto (the "") and will file such Final Term Sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) of the Securities Act within the time required by such rule.
Final Term Sheet
.
Schedule B
Final Term Sheet
     (e) The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that constitutes or would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that otherwise constitutes or would constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) or a portion thereof required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Final Term Sheet and the free writing prospectus in the form of a press release announcing the transaction and certain recent developments set forth in . Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
.
Schedule C
     (f) The Company agrees to furnish the Representatives, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, as many copies of the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto (including any documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein) and the Disclosure Package as the Representatives may request.
Copies of any Amendments and Supplements to the Prospectus
.
     (g) The Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto) and, so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be required by the Securities Act, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and any supplement thereto and the Disclosure Package as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Copies of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus
.
     (h) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws or Canadian provincial securities laws or other foreign laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign corporation, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Notes
Blue Sky Compliance
.
 
in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
     (i) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
.
     (j) The Company shall engage and maintain, at its expense, a registrar and transfer agent for the Common Stock.
Transfer Agent
.
     (k) . The Company agrees with each of the Underwriters to make generally available to its stockholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 16 months after the date hereof, an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date hereof and otherwise satisfying Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.
Earnings Statement
     (l) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the Securities Act without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
     (m) During the Prospectus Delivery Period the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the NYSE all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations
.
     (n) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the 90 day following the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" or liquidate or decrease a "call equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer (or enter into any transaction that is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition of), or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any shares of Common Stock, options or warrants to acquire shares of the Common Stock or securities exchangeable or exercisable for or convertible into shares of Common Stock (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes); , , that these restrictions shall not apply to any action or transaction under any employee benefit plan of the Company existing and as in effect on the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (x) during the last 17 days of the 90-day restricted period the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs, or (y) prior to the expiration of the 90-day restricted period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the 90-day period, the restrictions imposed in this clause shall continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the date of
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
.
th
provided
however
 
the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event. The Company will provide the Representatives and any co-managers and each individual subject to the restricted period pursuant to the lockup letters described in with prior notice of any such announcement that gives rise to an extension of the restricted period.
Section 5(h)
     (o) The Company will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act
.
     (p) The Company agrees to furnish to its stockholders as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year an annual report (including a balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries certified by independent public accountants) and, as soon as practicable after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending after the effective date of the Registration Statement), to make available to its stockholders consolidated summary financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries for such quarter in reasonable detail.
Future Reports to Stockholders
.
     (q) . During the period of five years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives, in the case of Merrill Lynch, at One Bryant Park, New York, NY 10036, Attn: ECM Legal, and, in the case of JPM, at 383 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10179, Attn: ECM, (i) as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, copies of the Annual Report of the Company containing the balance sheet of the Company as of the close of such fiscal year and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the year then ended and the opinion thereon of the Company's independent public or certified public accountants; (ii) as soon as practicable after the filing thereof, copies of each proxy statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Report on Form 8-K or other report filed by the Company with the Commission, FINRA or any securities exchange; and (iii) as soon as available, copies of any report or communication of the Company mailed generally to holders of its capital stock.
Future Reports to the Representatives
     (r) The Company shall not invest or otherwise use the proceeds received by the Company from its sale of the Notes in such a manner as would require the Company or any of its subsidiaries to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.
Investment Limitation
.
     (s) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price
.
     (t) The Company will enforce all agreements between the Company and any of its security holders to be entered into pursuant to this agreement that prohibit the sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or hypothecation of any of the Company's securities. In addition, if reasonably necessary to enforce such "lock-up" agreements, the
Lock-Up Agreements
.
 
Company will direct the transfer agent to place stop transfer restrictions upon any such securities of the Company that are bound by such "lock-up" agreements for the duration of the periods contemplated in such agreements.
     (u) The Company will use its best efforts to have the Conversion Shares approved by the NYSE for listing, in no event later than thirty (30) days following the date hereof and in compliance with the rules and regulations of the NYSE.
Listing of Conversion Shares
.
     (v) The Company will cooperate with the Representatives and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
.
     (w) The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, free of preemptive rights, the full number of Conversion Shares.
Available Conversion Shares
.
     (x) Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, the Company will not do or authorize any act or thing that would result in an adjustment of the conversion price.
Conversion Price
.
Section 4. Payment of Expenses.
     The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all fees and expenses of the Trustee under the Indenture, (iii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iv) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (v) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, (vi) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws or the provincial securities laws of Canada, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing and printing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, FINRA's review and approval, if required, of the Underwriters' participation in the offering and distribution of the Notes, (viii)  the fees and expenses associated with listing of the Conversion Shares on the NYSE, (ix) the expenses of the Company and the Underwriters in connection with the marketing and offering of the Notes, including all transportation and other expenses incurred in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Notes, except that the Company and the Underwriters will each pay 50% of the cost of privately chartered airplanes used for such purposes, (x) the fees and expenses of DTC and any nominees thereof in connection with the Notes and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the
 
Registration Statement and the fees and expenses of the QIU. Except as provided in this , , and hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Section 4
Section 6
Section 8
Section 9
Section 5. Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
     The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Notes, any Subsequent Closing Date, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and, with respect to the Optional Notes, as of any Subsequent Closing Date as though then made, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Section 1
     (a) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, the form of which is attached as .
Accountants' Comfort Letter
.
Exhibit A
     (b)  For the period from and after effectiveness of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Notes, any Subsequent Closing Date:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order; No Objection from FINRA
.
          (i) the Company shall have filed the Prospectus with the Commission (including the information required by Rule 430B under the Securities Act) in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act; or the Company shall have filed a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement containing the information required by such Rule 430B under the Securities Act, and such post-effective amendment shall have become effective;
          (ii) all material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, including the Final Term Sheet, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings under such Rule 433 under the Securities Act;
          (iii) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose shall have been instituted or threatened by the Commission, and the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form; and
          (iv) FINRA shall have raised no objection to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
     (c) . For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Notes, any Subsequent Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Effect or Ratings Agency Change
 
          (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Effect;
          (ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease identified in the letter or letters referred to in of this from the letter or letters referred to in of this which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and
paragraph (g)
Section 5
paragraph (a)
Section 5
          (iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
     (d) On the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of the General Counsel of the Company, and of Schiff Hardin LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date, forms of which are attached as .
Opinion of the General Counsel of the Company; Opinion of Company Counsel
.
Exhibit B
     (e) On the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Winston & Strawn LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, special counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date, each in form and substance satisfactory to, and addressed to, the Representatives, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Notes, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto), the Disclosure Package and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters; Opinion of Special Counsel for the Underwriters
.
     (f) On the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and this Agreement, to the effect set forth in and  of this , and further to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
.
subsections (b)
(c)(iii)
Section 5
          (i) for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date there has not occurred any Material Adverse Effect;
          (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in of this Agreement are true and correct on and as of such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date
Section 1
 
with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date; and
          (iii) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date.
     (g) On the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young, LLP, independent public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to of this , except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to such Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
.
subsection (a)
Section 5
     (h) On or prior to the date hereof, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives an agreement in the form of hereto from each director and executive officer of the Company, and such agreements shall be in full force and effect on the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date.
Lock-Up Agreement from Certain Securityholders of the Company
.
Exhibit C
     (i) . The Company shall have made application for the Conversion Shares to be approved for listing, subject to notice of issuance, on the NYSE, and will provide satisfactory evidence of such action to the Representatives.
Listing of Conversion Shares
     (j) On or before the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
.
     If any condition specified in this is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Notes, at any time prior to the applicable Subsequent Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that , , , and shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
Section 5
Section 4
Section 6
Section 8
Section 9
Section 14
     The documents required to be delivered by this shall be delivered at the office of Winston & Strawn LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at 35 West Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601, on the applicable delivery date.
Section 5
Section 6. Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
     If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , or or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date is not
Section 5
Section 10
Section 11
 
consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including, without limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Section 7. Effectiveness of this Agreement.
     This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 8. Indemnification.
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter, director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, including any information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430A, Rule 430B or Rule 430C under the Securities Act, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the information contained in the Final Term Sheet or in , any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any prospectus wrapper material distributed in Canada in connection with foreign sales or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and to reimburse each Underwriter, its officers, directors, employees, agents and each such controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by Merrill Lynch after obtaining approval of such counsel from JPM) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter, or its officers, directors, employees, agents or such controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Final Term Sheet, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as
Indemnification of the Underwriters
.
Schedule C
provided
however
 
such in hereof. The indemnity agreement set forth in this shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Section 8(b)
Section 8(a)
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the information contained in the Final Term Sheet, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or arises out of or is based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, and only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Final Term Sheet, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the Underwriters have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Final Term Sheet, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in (i) the second paragraph under the subsection "Price Stabilization and Short Positions" under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus and (ii) the first sentence under the subsection "Commissions and Discounts" under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
.
Section 8(b)
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this , notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under or above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in or above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
.
Section 8
Section 8
paragraph
(a)
(b)
paragraph
(a)
(b)
 
the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party; , , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by the Representatives in the case of ), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
provided
however
Section 8
Section 8(b)
     (d) The indemnifying party under this shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, which shall not be withheld unreasonably, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
.
Section 8
     (e) Without limitation and in addition to its obligation under the other subsections of this , the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the QIU, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls the QIU within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such QIU, director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon the QIU's acting as a "qualified independent underwriter" (within the meaning of NASD Conduct Rule 2720) in connection with the offering contemplated by this Agreement, and agrees to
Indemnification of the QIU
.
Section 8
 
reimburse each such indemnified person for any legal or other expense reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action as such expenses are incurred.
Section 9. Contribution.
     If the indemnification provided for in is for any reason unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the untrue statements or omissions or alleged untrue statements or alleged omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Section 8
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in , any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
Section 8(c)
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this .
Section 9
Section 9
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this , no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such
Section 9
 
fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in . For purposes of this , each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Section 9
Schedule A
Section 9
Section 10. Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
     If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase the Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes and the aggregate principal amount of Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of , , and shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven (7) days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Schedule A
Section 4
Section 6
Section 8
Section 9
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this . Any action taken under this shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
Section 10
Section 10
Section 11. Termination of this Agreement.
     Prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Notes, any Subsequent Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i)  there shall have been, since the date of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the
 
Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business; (ii) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the NYSE, or trading in securities generally on the NYSE shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established by the Commission or FINRA or on either such stock exchange; (iii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by federal or New York authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States has occurred; (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities, (v) if the rating assigned by any nationally recognized securities rating agency to any debt securities of the Company as of the date of this Agreement shall have been lowered since that date or if any such rating agency shall have publicly announced (other than a reaffirmation of a previous announcement) since such date that it has under a surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of any debt securities of the Company, or (vi) if there shall have come to the Representatives' attention any facts that would cause the Representatives to reasonably believe that the Prospectus, at the time it was required to be delivered to the Underwriters, included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of such delivery, not misleading. Any termination pursuant to this shall be without liability on the part of (a) the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Representatives and the Underwriters pursuant to and hereof or (b) any Underwriter to the Company.
Section 11
Sections 4
6
Section 12. No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
     The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set
 
forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
Section 13. Research Analyst Independence.
     The Company acknowledge that the Underwriters' research analysts and research departments are required to be independent from their respective investment banking divisions and are subject to certain regulations and internal policies, and that such Underwriters' research analysts may hold views and make statements or investment recommendations and/or publish research reports with respect to the Company and/or the offering that differ from the views of their respective investment banking divisions. The Company hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the Underwriters with respect to any conflict of interest that may arise from the fact that the views expressed by their independent research analysts and research departments may be different from or inconsistent with the views or advise communicated to the Company by such Underwriters' investment banking divisions. The Company acknowledge that each of the Underwriters is a full service securities firm and as such from time to time, subject to applicable securities laws, may effect transactions for its own account or the account of its customers and hold long or short positions in debt or equity securities of the companies that may be the subject of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 14. Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
     The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the QIU, the officers or employees of any Underwriter or the QIU, or any person controlling the Underwriter or the QIU, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
 
     
Section 15. Notices.
     All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
:
If to the Company
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Three Glenlake Parkway, 13 Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Attention: Dale L. Matschullat Facsimile: (770) 418-7738
th
:
If to Merrill Lynch
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036 Facsimile: (646) 855-5016 Attention: Syndicate Department
:
with a copy to
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036 Facsimile: (212) 230-8730 Attention: ECM  Legal
:
If to JPM
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 383 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10179 Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk Facsimile: (212) 622-8358
:
If to the QIU
Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. 1001 Nineteenth St. North Arlington, VA 22209 Attn:  General Counsel Facsimile:  (703) 469-1140
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
 
Section 16. Successors and Assigns.
     This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to hereof, and to the benefit of (i) the Company, its directors, any person who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and any officer of the Company who signs the Registration Statement, (ii) the Underwriters, the officers, directors, employees and agents of the Underwriters, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, (iii) the QIU, the QIU's officers, directors, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls the QIU within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and (iv) the respective successors and assigns of any of the above, all as and to the extent provided in this Agreement, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement. The term "successors and assigns" shall not include a purchaser of any of the Notes from any of the several Underwriters merely because of such purchase.
Section 10
Section 17. Partial Unenforceability.
     The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 18. Governing Law.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 19. General Provisions.
     This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of and the contribution provisions of , and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of and  hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, any
Section 8
Section 9
Sections 8
9
 
preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives and the QIU as of the date first above written.
Acting as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in the attached .
Schedule A
For themselves and on behalf of the several Underwriters named in the attached .
Schedule A
 
 
 
The information in this pricing term sheet relates only to the Convertible Senior Notes Offering and should be read together with (i) the preliminary prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, and (ii) the related base prospectus dated March 25, 2008, each filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Registration Statement No. 333-149887.
 
The exact stock prices and effective dates may not be set forth in the table above, in which case:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the conversion rate exceed 151.0574 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the conversion rate as set forth under "Description of NotesConversion Rate Adjustments" in the preliminary prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009.
The Issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a related preliminary prospectus supplement) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the preliminary prospectus supplement, the accompanying prospectus in that registration statement and the other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and the offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies may be obtained from Merrill Lynch & Co., Attn: Prospectus Department, 4 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10080, (866) 500-5408 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., National Statement Processing, Prospectus Library, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, (718) 242-8002.
This communication should be read in conjunction with the preliminary prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009 and the accompanying prospectus. The information in this communication supersedes the information in the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus to the extent it is inconsistent with the information in such preliminary prospectus supplement or the accompanying prospectus.
ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM.
 
 
Free Writing Prospectus Filed Pursuant to Rule 433 Registration Statement No.: 333-149887
- Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, $250 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2014 in a registered underwritten public offering. Newell Rubbermaid intends to grant the underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional $37.5 million aggregate principal amount of such convertible notes to cover over-allotments, if any.
ATLANTA, March 24, 2009
In addition, the company has retained Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. to arrange a replacement 364-day trade receivables financing facility in an initially proposed maximum amount of up to $250 million, coincident with the expiration of the company's existing $450 million receivables facility. Consummation of a new receivables facility is subject to customary closing conditions, the satisfactory completion of due diligence and final commitment by the facility providers.
The convertible note offering and the receivables facility are intended to permit the repayment of a portion of the approximately $750 million in debt that matures in the second half of 2009. Newell Rubbermaid plans to address its remaining debt obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. The company reported cash on hand of $275 million as of December 31, 2008, anticipates operating cash flow of more than $400 million in 2009 and has additional funds available under its $690 million revolver agreement. Newell Rubbermaid believes the receivables financing facility and the convertible notes offering will improve financial flexibility and, combined with cash on hand and the revolver agreement, will enable the company to meet all near-term obligations and weather the current economic recession, while continuing to invest in consumer-driven innovation and brand building to drive long-term growth and create shareholder value.
Dividend Reduction
In connection with today's announcement, Newell Rubbermaid's Board of Directors also authorized a reduction in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.05 per share from $0.105 per share. Although the company recognizes the importance of the dividend to shareholders, it believes that the reduced payout level demonstrates a strong commitment to maintaining its current investment grade rating while still providing a competitive and appropriate dividend yield.
 
Financial Outlook
The company reaffirmed its guidance for normalized EPS of $0.07-$0.12 for the first quarter of 2009, although its business continues to be adversely impacted by the global economic slowdown. The company now expects that first quarter sales will show a year over year percentage decline in the mid to high teens compared with the company's previous guidance of a decline in the low to mid teens. Lower input costs and disciplined cost management are expected to offset the anticipated first quarter sales softness. The company also stated that it anticipates its first quarter operating cash usage will be approximately half of last year's $123 million first quarter cash flow use. Normalized earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure within the meaning of the SEC's Regulation G. Included below is a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Convertible Senior Notes
In connection with the offering of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of its convertible senior notes due 2014, Newell Rubbermaid also expects to enter into convertible note hedge transactions with counterparties that are affiliates of the representatives of the underwriters of the notes. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to Newell Rubbermaid's common stock upon conversion of the notes. Newell Rubbermaid also expects to enter into warrant transactions with the counterparties. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market value per share of Newell Rubbermaid's common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.
In connection with establishing their initial hedge of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, the counterparties or their respective affiliates expect to enter into various derivative transactions with respect to Newell Rubbermaid's common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the notes. This activity could increase or avoid a decrease in the market price of Newell Rubbermaid's common stock or the notes at that time.
In addition, the counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Newell Rubbermaid's common stock and/or by selling or purchasing Newell Rubbermaid's common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the notes and prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of Newell Rubbermaid's common stock, which could affect noteholders' ability to convert the notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of notes, it could affect the number of shares and value of the consideration that noteholders will receive upon conversion of the notes.
Newell Rubbermaid estimates that the proceeds from this offering will be approximately $243.1 million ($279.6 million if the underwriters exercise their option to purchase additional notes in full), after deducting fees and before estimated expenses. Newell Rubbermaid expects to use (i) a portion of the net proceeds for the cost of the convertible note hedge transactions after such cost is offset by the proceeds of the warrant transactions and (ii) the remaining proceeds for general corporate purposes, including repayment of 2009 debt maturities. If the option granted to the underwriters to purchase additional notes is exercised, Newell
 
Rubbermaid will use a portion of the net proceeds from the sale of additional notes to increase the size of the convertible note hedge transactions. Newell Rubbermaid will also sell additional warrants, which would result in additional proceeds to it. Newell Rubbermaid expects to use the remaining proceeds, together with the proceeds from the sale of additional warrants, for general corporate purposes.
Merrill Lynch & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. will act as the joint book-running managers of the offering and Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. will act as co-manager of the offering.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of over $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Sharpie, Paper Mate, Dymo, Expo, Waterman, Parker, Rolodex, Irwin, Lenox, BernzOmatic, Rubbermaid, TC, Levolor, Graco, Aprica, Calphalon and Goody.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may relate to, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about the effects of sales (including pricing), income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, capital and other expenditures, working capital, cash flow, dividends, capital structure, debt to capitalization ratios, availability of financing, interest rates, restructuring, impairment and other charges, potential losses on divestitures, impact of changes in accounting standards, pending legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters), future economic performance, costs and cost savings (including raw material and sourced product inflation, productivity and streamlining), synergies, management's plans, goals and objectives for future operations, performance and growth or the assumptions relating to any of the forward-looking statements. These statements generally are accompanied by words such as "intend," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate," "target," "plan," "should," "would" and similar statements. Company management cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting future results. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the company's dependence on the strength of retail economies in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and the company's ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; its ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen its end-user brands; its ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments;
 
its ability to manage successfully risks associated with divesting or discontinuing businesses and product lines; its ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout the organization; its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; its ability to refinance short term debt on terms acceptable to the company, particularly given the recent turmoil and uncertainty in the global credit markets; changes to the company's credit ratings; increases in the funding obligations related to its pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than the company's provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in the company's foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, there can be no assurance that management has correctly identified and assessed all of the factors affecting the company or that the publicly available and other information it receives with respect to these factors is complete or correct. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Newell Rubbermaid has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a related preliminary prospectus supplement) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus supplement and prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Newell Rubbermaid has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Newell Rubbermaid and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies may be obtained from Merrill Lynch & Co., Attn: Prospectus Department, 4 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10080, (866) 500-5408 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., National Statement Processing, Prospectus Library, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, (718) 242-8002.
A reconciliation of the first quarter earnings outlook is as follows:
The company has used certain financial measures that are included in this release both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The company's management believes that these measures  including the "non-GAAP financial measure"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
Management believes that normalized earnings per share is also useful because it provides investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the company's continuing operations and because it helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management employees under the company's management cash bonus plan. While management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating the company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, this non-GAAP financial measure may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
NWL-EA

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
     SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of March 30, 2009, between Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A, as trustee (the ) under the Indenture dated as of November 1, 1995, between the Company and the Trustee (as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, the "").
Company
"Trustee"
Original Indenture
     WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered the Original Indenture to the Trustee to provide, among other things, for the issuance, from time to time, of the Company's unsecured Securities, in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, in one or more series to be established by the Company under, and authenticated and delivered as provided in, the Original Indenture;
     WHEREAS, Section 901(7) of the Original Indenture provides for the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Original Indenture to establish the form and terms of Securities of any series as contemplated by Sections 201 and 301 of the Original Indenture;
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has duly adopted resolutions authorizing the Company to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Original Indenture, the Company desires to establish a new series of its Securities to be known as its "5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014" (the ""), the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Original Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture;
Notes
     WHEREAS, the Form of Note, the certificate of authentication to be borne by each Note and the Form of Notice of Conversion, Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice and Form of Assignment and Transfer contemplated under the terms of the Notes are to be substantially in the forms hereinafter provided; and
     WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and all requirements necessary to make (i) this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and (ii) the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture have been duly authorized in all respects.
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH, for and in consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Notes by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of the Company and the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
 
     SECTION 1.01. . The changes, modifications and supplements to the Original Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture shall be applicable only with respect to, and shall only govern the terms of, the Notes, which may be issued from time to time, and shall not apply to any other Securities that may be issued under the Original Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. The provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall supersede any corresponding provisions in the Original Indenture.
Scope of Supplemental Indenture
     SECTION 1.02. . For all purposes of the Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Definitions
     (i) the terms defined in this Article 1 shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
     (ii) all words, terms and phrases defined in the Original Indenture (but not otherwise defined herein) shall have the same meanings as in the Original Indenture;
     (iii) all other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Trust Indenture Act;
     (iv) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of this instrument; and
     (v) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 5.02.
Additional Interest
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Additional Notes
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(a).
Additional Shares
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02.
Agent Members
     "" means the Company or such other Person (including the Trustee) as may be appointed, from time to time, by the Company to solicit market bid quotations for the Notes in accordance with Section 4.01(a)(ii).
Bid Solicitation Agent
 
     "" means, with respect to any Note, any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is authorized or required by law or executive order to close or to be closed.
Business Day
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(c).
"Cash Percentage"
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(c).
"Cash Percentage Notice"
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause A Distribution
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause B Distribution
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause C Distribution
     "" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
close of business
     "" means the shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company as such shares of common stock exist on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, subject to Section 4.07.
Common Stock
     "" means the Trustee or such other office or agency designated by the Company where Notes may be presented for conversion. The Conversion Agent shall initially be the Trustee.
Conversion Agent
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02(b).
Conversion Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02(b).
Conversion Notice
     "" means, in respect of each Note, as of any date, $1,000, divided by the Conversion Rate as of such date.
Conversion Price
     "" means, initially, 116.1980 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.
Conversion Rate
     "" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes (so long as the Notes constitute Global Notes), or any successor entity.
Custodian
     "" means, for each of the 40 consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, one fortieth (1/40th) of the product of (i) the applicable Conversion Rate and (ii) the Daily VWAP of the Common Stock on such Trading Day.
Daily Conversion Value
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(b).
Daily Settlement Amount
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(b)(ii).
"Daily Share Amount"
     "" means, for each of the 40 consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "NWL.N <equity> AQR" (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of
Daily VWAP
 
the primary trading session on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for such purpose by the Company). The Daily VWAP will be determined without regard to after-hours trading or any other trading outside of the regular trading session trading hours.
     "" or " has the meaning set forth in the Original Indenture, which shall initially be The Depository Trust Company until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean such successor Depositary.
Depositary
"Depository
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(c).
Effective Date
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Exchange Act"
     "" means, in respect of any dividend or distribution, the first date upon which the shares of Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market (used to determine the Last Reported Sale Price), regular way, without the right to receive such dividend or distribution.
Ex-Dividend Date
     "" will be deemed to have occurred at the time after the Notes are originally issued if any of the following occurs:
Fundamental Change
     (1) a "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries, and its and their employee benefit plans, has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the Company's common equity representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's common equity;
     (2) consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of the Company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Company's Subsidiaries; provided, however, that a transaction where the holders of all classes of the Company's common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such event shall not be a Fundamental Change;
     (3) the Company's stockholders approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
     (4) the Common Stock (or other common stock into which the Notes are then convertible) ceases to be listed or quoted on a national securities exchange in the United States.
 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Fundamental Change as a result of clause (2) above will not be deemed to have occurred if 100% of the consideration received or to be received by the holders of the Common Stock, excluding cash payments for fractional shares, in connection with the transaction or transactions constituting the Fundamental Change consists of Publicly Traded Securities and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Notes become convertible into such Publicly Traded Securities, excluding cash payments for fractional shares, subject to the provisions set forth under Section 4.03 of this Supplemental Indenture.
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b).
Fundamental Change Company Notice
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a)(i).
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
     "" means any Note that is a Registered Security in global form.
Global Note
     "" means the Original Indenture, as originally executed and as supplemented from time to time by one or more indentures supplemental hereto, including this Supplemental Indenture, entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern the Original Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture and any other such supplemental indenture, respectively.
Indenture
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(d)(i).
Initial Dividend Threshold
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Initial Notes
     "" means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, each March 15 and September 15 of each year.
Interest Payment Date
     "" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange on the relevant date, the "" shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the "" shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
Last Reported Sale Price
Last Reported Sale Price
Last Reported Sale Price
 
     "" means any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change (determined after giving effect to any exceptions or exclusions to such definition, but without regard to the in clause (2) of the definition thereof).
Make-Whole Fundamental Change
proviso
     "" means (i) a failure by the principal United States national securities or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading to open for trading during its regular trading session or (ii) the occurrence or existence for more than a one half-hour period in the aggregate on any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m., New York City time.
Market Disruption Event
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(a)(ii).
Measurement Period
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.07(c)(i).
"Merger Common Stock"
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.07(a).
"Merger Event"
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.07(d)(i).
"Merger Valuation Percentage"
     has the meaning specified in Section 4.07(d)(ii).
"Merger Valuation Period"
     "" or "" has the meaning specified in the fourth paragraph of the recitals of this Supplemental Indenture, and shall include any Additional Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
Note
Notes
     "" with respect to any Note means (i) if the relevant Conversion Date occurs prior to November 15, 2013, the 40 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on and including the second Scheduled Trading Day after such Conversion Date, and (ii) if the relevant Conversion Date occurs on or after November 15, 2013, the 40 consecutive Trading Days beginning on and including the 42nd Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding March 15, 2014.
Observation Period
     "" means 9:00 a.m. (New York City time).
opening of business
     "" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Supplemental Indenture.
Original Indenture
     "" has the meaning set forth in the Original Indenture, which shall initially be the Trustee, and shall be the Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal amount of, interest on, or Fundamental Change Purchase Price of, any Notes on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
     "" means certificated Notes that are not in global form and are Registered Securities issued in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and multiples thereof.
Physical Notes
     "" means, for purposes of the Notes, New York, New York.
Place of Payment
 
     "" means, in respect of a transaction described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change, shares of common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Global Select Market (or any or their respective successors) or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change.
Publicly Traded Securities
     "" means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, the March 1 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding an Interest Payment Date on March 15 and the September 1 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding an Interest Payment Date on September 15.
Regular Record Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.07(a).
Reference Property
     "" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the principal United States national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading. If the Common Stock is not so listed or admitted for trading, "" means a Business Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
Scheduled Trading Day
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(a).
Settlement Amount
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Spin-Off
     "" means, with respect to any Note and the payment of the principal amount thereof, March 15, 2014.
Stated Maturity
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(c).
Stock Price
     "" means, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.03(g), a day on which (i) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded, and (ii) a Last Reported Sale Price for the Common Stock is available on such securities exchange or market. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a closing sale price must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "" means a Business Day.
Trading Day
Trading Day
     "" of the Notes on any date of determination means the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent for $5 million principal amount of the Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company; that, if three bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent but only two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, that one bid shall be used. If the Bid Solicitation Agent cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5 million principal amount of the Notes from a nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate.
Trading Price
provided
 
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(a)(ii).
Trading Price Condition
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Trigger Event
     "" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Friedman Billings Ramsey.
Underwriters
     "" means the United States of America.
U.S.
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Valuation Period
     SECTION 2.01. . There is hereby established a series of Securities designated the "5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014" initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $345,000,000, which amount shall be as set forth in a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Notes pursuant to Section 303 of the Original Indenture.
Title and Terms; Payments
     The principal amount of Notes then outstanding shall be payable at Stated Maturity.
     The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, hereafter issue additional notes ("") under the Indenture with the same terms and with the same CUSIP numbers as the Notes issued on the date of this Supplemental Indenture (the ) in an unlimited aggregate principal amount; that such Additional Notes must be part of the same issue as the Initial Notes for federal income tax purposes. Any such Additional Notes shall constitute a single series together with the Initial Notes for all purposes hereunder, including, without limitation, for purposes of any waivers, supplements or amendments to the Indenture requiring the approval of Holders of the Notes and any offers to purchase the Notes.
Additional Notes
"Initial Notes"
provided
     The Form of Note, the Form of Notice of Conversion, the Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice and the Form of Assignment and Transfer shall be substantially as set forth in Exhibits A, B, C and D, respectively, hereto, which are incorporated into and shall be deemed a part of this Supplemental Indenture, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined to be necessary or appropriate by the officers of the Company executing such Notes, as evidenced by their execution of the Notes.
     The Company shall pay the principal of and interest on any Global Note in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered Holder of such Global Note. The Company shall pay the principal of any Physical Notes at the office or agency designated by the Company for that purpose. The Company has initially designated the Trustee as its Paying Agent and Security Registrar in respect of the Notes and its agency in New York, New York as a place where Notes may be presented for payment or for registration of
 
transfer. The Company may, however, change the Paying Agent or Security Registrar for the Notes without prior notice to the Holders thereof, and the Company may act as Paying Agent or Security Registrar for the Notes. Interest on any Physical Notes will be payable (i) to Holders of Physical Notes having an aggregate principal amount of Notes of $5,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holders of such Notes at their address in the Security Register and (ii) to Holders having an aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes in excess of $5,000,000, either by check mailed to each Holder at its address in the Security Register or, upon application by a Holder to the Registrar not later than the relevant Regular Record Date, by wire transfer in immediately available funds to that Holder's account within the United States, which application shall remain in effect until that Holder notifies, in writing, the Registrar to the contrary.
     SECTION 2.02. . (a) The Notes initially shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Notes without interest coupons (i) registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary and (ii) delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary.
Book-Entry Provisions for Global Notes
     Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Supplemental Indenture or the Original Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Note, and Cede & Co., or such other Person designated by the Depositary as its nominee, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of any Holder.
Agent Members
     (b) Transfers of Global Notes shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 305 of the Original Indenture, interests of beneficial owners in a Global Note may be transferred or exchanged, in whole or in part, for Physical Notes, only: (i) pursuant to the sixth paragraph of Section 305 of the Original Indenture regarding the Depositary being unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue in its capacity as Depositary for the Notes, including as a result of ceasing to be registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed within 60 days or (ii) if an Event of Default with respect to the Notes has occurred and is continuing, in each case in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Other than as set forth in this Section 2.02(b), the Notes shall remain in global form as Global Notes.
     (c) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 305 of the Original Indenture, the Security Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount in accordance with Section 305 of the Original Indenture.
 
     (d) In connection with the transfer of the entire Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 305 of the Original Indenture, the Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations and the same tenor.
     (e) The Holder of Global Notes may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Supplemental Indenture, Original Indenture or the Notes.
     SECTION 2.03. . In issuing the Notes, the Company may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders of the Notes; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers as printed on the Notes and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers of the Notes.
CUSIP Numbers
provided
     SECTION 2.04. . The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 15 days after the same is required to be filed with the Commission, copies of the quarterly and annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports, if any, that the Company is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (giving effect to any grace period provided by Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act), and the Company shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 314(a). Any quarterly or annual report or other information, document or other report that the Company files with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act on the Commission's EDGAR system shall be deemed to constitute delivery of such filing to the Trustee. The Trustee does not have the duty to review such information, documents or reports, is not considered to have notice of the content of such information, documents or reports and does not have a duty to verify the accuracy of such information, documents or reports.
Reporting Requirement
     SECTION 3.01. . (a) Generally. If a Fundamental Change occurs at any time prior to March 15, 2014, then each Holder of Notes shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for cash any or all of such Holder's Notes, or any portion of the principal amount thereof, that is equal to $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000, on a date specified by the Company that is no earlier than the 20th calendar day following the date of, and no later than the 35th calendar day following the date of, delivery of the Fundamental Change Company Notice (as defined below) (the ""), at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (the ""); ,
Purchase at Option of Holders Upon a Fundamental Change
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
provided
 
however, that if a Fundamental Change Purchase Date is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which such Regular Record Date relates, the interest payable in respect of such Interest Payment Date shall be payable to the Holders of record as of the corresponding Regular Record Date and the Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to this Article 3. The requirement for the Company to purchase any Notes on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date will be subject to extension to comply with applicable law.
     Purchases of Notes under this Section 3.01 shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon:
     (i) delivery to the Paying Agent by a Holder of a duly completed notice (the ) in the form set forth on the reverse of the Note as Exhibit C thereto, if the Notes are Physical Notes, or in compliance with the Depositary's procedures for tendering interests in Global Notes, if the Notes are not Physical Notes, in each case prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date ; and
"Fundamental Change Purchase Notice"
     (ii) delivery of the Notes, in the case of Physical Notes, to the Paying Agent appointed by the Company (together with all necessary endorsements for transfer), or book-entry transfer of the Notes, in compliance with the procedures of the Depositary, such delivery or transfer being a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price therefor.
     The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in respect of any Notes to be purchased shall state:
     (i) if such Notes are Physical Notes, the certificate numbers of such Notes;
     (ii) the portion of the principal amount of such Notes, which must be $1,000 or a multiple thereof; and
     (iii) that such Notes are to be purchased by the Company pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture;
, , that if such Notes are in global form, the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice must also comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided
however
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01 shall have the right to withdraw, in whole or in part, such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.03 below.
     The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
 
     (b) . On or before the 20th calendar day after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall provide to all Holders of record of the Notes, the Trustee and the Paying Agent (in the case of any Paying Agent other than the Trustee) a notice (the "") of the occurrence of such Fundamental Change and of the purchase right at the option of the Holders arising as a result thereof. Such notice shall be sent by first class mail or, in the case of any Global Notes, in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary for providing notices. Simultaneously with providing such Fundamental Change Company Notice, the Company shall publish a notice containing the information included therein in a newspaper of general circulation in New York, New York or shall publish such information on the Company's website or through such other public medium as the Company may use at such time.
Fundamental Change Company Notice
Fundamental Change Company Notice
     Each Fundamental Change Company Notice shall specify:
     (i) the events causing a Fundamental Change;
     (ii) the date of the Fundamental Change;
     (iii) the last date on which a Holder of Notes may exercise the repurchase right pursuant to this Article 3;
     (iv) the Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
     (v) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
     (vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent, if applicable;
     (vii) if applicable, the applicable Conversion Rate and any adjustments to the applicable Conversion Rate;
     (viii) if applicable, that the Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been delivered by a Holder may be converted only if the Holder withdraws the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with the Indenture; and
     (ix) the procedures that Holders must follow to require the Company to purchase their Notes.
     No failure of the Company to give the foregoing notices and no defect therein shall limit the purchase rights of the Holders of Notes or affect the validity of the proceedings for the purchase of the Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01.
     (c) There shall be no purchase of any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01 if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Physical Notes held by it during the continuance of an Event
No Payment During Events of Default
.
 
of Default (other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to the Notes) and shall deem canceled any instructions for book-entry transfer of the Notes in compliance with the procedures of the Depositary, in which case, upon such return and cancelation, the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
     SECTION 3.02. . Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01 hereof, the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Fundamental Change Purchase Price in cash with respect to such Note. Such Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on the later of (x) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date with respect to such Note (the conditions in Section 3.01 hereof have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery or book-entry transfer of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01 hereof.
Effect of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
provided
     SECTION 3.03. . A Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be withdrawn (in whole or in part) by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the Paying Agent in accordance with the Fundamental Change Company Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, specifying:
Withdrawal of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
     (i) the principal amount of the Notes with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted;
     (ii) if Physical Notes have been issued, the certificate numbers of the withdrawn Notes; and
     (iii) the principal amount, if any, of such Notes that remains subject to the original Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000;
, , that if Physical Notes have not been issued, the notice must comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided
however
     The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Physical Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03.
     SECTION 3.04. . Prior to 11:00 a.m. (local time in The City of New York) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided herein) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof that are to be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. If the Paying Agent holds cash
Deposit of Fundamental Change Purchase Price
 
sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes for which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then as of such Fundamental Change Purchase Date, (a) such Notes will cease to be outstanding and interest will cease to accrue thereon (whether or not book-entry transfer of such Notes is made or such Notes have been delivered to the Paying Agent) and (b) all other rights of the Holders in respect thereof will terminate (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and previously accrued and unpaid interest upon delivery or book-entry transfer of such Notes).
     SECTION 3.05. . Any Note that is to be purchased, whether in whole or in part, shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires in the case of Physical Notes, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
Notes Purchased in Whole or in Part
     SECTION 3.06. . In connection with any offer to purchase Notes under Section 3.01 hereof, the Company shall, in each case if required, (i) comply with Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act that may then be applicable, (ii) file a Schedule TO or any other required schedule under the Exchange Act and (iii) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.01.
Covenant to Comply With Applicable Laws Upon Purchase of Notes
     SECTION 3.07. . To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.04 exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof that the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then, following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Paying Agent shall promptly return any such excess to the Company.
Repayment to the Company
     SECTION 4.01. . (a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, each Holder of Notes shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert the principal amount of any such Notes, or any portion of such principal amount equal to $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000 thereof, at the Conversion Rate in effect on the Conversion Date for such Notes, (x) prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding November 15, 2013, only upon satisfaction of one or more of the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below and (y) on or after November 15, 2013, at any time prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding March 15, 2014 irrespective of the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below:
Right to Convert
 
     (i) Prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding November 15, 2013, a Holder of Notes may surrender all or a portion of its Notes for conversion during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter) commencing after June 30, 2009 if the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable Conversion Price in effect on each applicable Trading Day. The Company shall notify the Trustee and the Conversion Agent if the Notes become convertible in accordance with this Section 4.01(a)(i).
     (ii) Prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding November 15, 2013, a Holder of Notes may surrender its Notes for conversion during the five Business Day period after any 10 consecutive Trading Day period (the ) in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, as determined following a request by a Holder of Notes in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4.01(a)(ii), for each Trading Day of such period was less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate on such Conversion Date (the ). The Bid Solicitation Agent shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes in accordance with this Section 4.01(a)(ii) unless requested by the Company, and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder of Notes provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes would be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate. The Company shall instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to determine (or, if the Company is then acting as Bid Solicitation Agent, the Company shall determine) the Trading Price of the Notes beginning on the next Trading Day promptly following the receipt of such evidence and on each successive Trading Day until such Trading Day on which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate. If the Company does not so instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to obtain (or, if the Company is then acting as Bid Solicitation Agent, the Company does not obtain) bids when required, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate on each day the Company fails to do so. If the Trading Price Condition has been met, the Company shall so notify Holders, the Trustee and the Conversion Agent. If, at any time after the Trading Price Condition has been met, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate for such date, the Company shall so notify the holders of the Notes, the Trustee and the Conversion Agent.
"Measurement Period"
"Trading Price Condition"
     (iii) If the Company elects to:
     (A) issue to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock certain rights or warrants entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 45 days after the announcement date of such issuance, shares of Common Stock at less
 
than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of a share of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance; or
     (B) distribute to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase securities of the Company, which distribution has a per share value, as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, exceeding 10% of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day preceding the date of announcement for such distribution,
then, in each case, the Company shall notify the Holders of the Notes at least 50 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to such Ex-Dividend Date or the Company's announcement that such issuance or distribution will not take place, even if the Notes are not otherwise convertible at such time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Holder of Notes may not convert its Notes under the provisions of this Section 4.01(a)(iii) if such Holder will participate in such issuance or distribution, at the same time and upon the same terms as a holder of Common Stock, as if such Holder held, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date.
     (iv) If a transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change or a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs, regardless of whether a Holder has the right to require the Company to purchase the Notes pursuant to Article 3 hereof, or if the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, or sale, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, in each case, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other assets, Holders may surrender Notes for conversion at any time from or after the date which is 50 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction until 35 Trading Days after the actual effective date of such transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Fundamental Change, until the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date). The Company shall notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction, but in no event less than 50 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction .
     (b) Notes may not be converted after the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding March 15, 2014.
     SECTION 4.02. . (a) Each Note shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent and, if applicable, in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary.
Conversion Procedures
 
     (b) In order to exercise the conversion privilege with respect to any interest in a Global Note, the Holder must complete the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to the Depositary's book-entry conversion program, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Company or the Conversion Agent, and pay the funds, if any, required by Section 4.03(e) and any taxes or duties if required pursuant to Section 4.08, and the Conversion Agent must be informed of the conversion in accordance with the customary practice of the Depositary. In order to exercise the conversion privilege with respect to any Physical Notes, the Holder of any such Notes to be converted, in whole or in part, shall:
     (i) complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided on the back of the Note (the ) or a facsimile of the Conversion Notice;
"Conversion Notice"
     (ii) deliver the Conversion Notice, which is irrevocable, and the Note to the Conversion Agent;
     (iii) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents,
     (iv) make any payment required under Section 4.03(e); and
     (v) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes as set forth in Section 4.08.
The date on which the Holder satisfies all of the applicable requirements set forth above is the "." The Conversion Agent will, as promptly as possible, and in any event within two (2) Business Days of the receipt thereof, provide the Company with notice of any conversion by a Holder of the Notes.
Conversion Date
     (c) Each Conversion Notice shall state the name or names (with address or addresses) in which any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock which shall be issuable on such conversion shall be issued. All such Notes surrendered for conversion shall, unless the shares issuable on conversion are to be issued in the same name as the registration of such Notes, be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company duly executed by, the Holder or his duly authorized attorney.
     (d) In case any Notes of a denomination greater than $1,000 shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of the Notes so surrendered, without charge, new Notes in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Notes.
     Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected as to any such Notes (or portion thereof) surrendered for conversion on the relevant Conversion Date; , , that the person in whose name the certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, that shall be issuable upon such conversion in respect of any Trading Day during an Observation Period, if applicable, shall become the Holder of record of such shares of Common Stock as of the close of business on the last Trading Day of such Observation Period.
provided
however
     (e) Upon the conversion of an interest in Global Notes, the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Company) shall make a notation on such Global Notes as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Company shall notify the Trustee
 
in writing of any conversions of Notes effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
     (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Note in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice exercising such Holder's option to require the Company to purchase such Note may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with Article 3 hereof prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the relevant Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     SECTION 4.03. . (a) Except as provided in Section 4.06(b), upon conversion of any Note, on the third Business Day immediately following the last Trading Day of the relevant Observation Period, the Company shall deliver to converting Holders, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Notes being converted, a equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts for each of the 40 Trading Days during the applicable Observation Period for such Note.
Payments Upon Conversion
"Settlement Amount"
     (b) The for each of the 40 Trading Days during the Observation Period, shall consist of:
"Daily Settlement Amount,"
     (i) cash equal to the lesser of $25 and the Daily Conversion Value, and
     (ii) to the extent the Daily Conversion Value exceeds $25, a number of shares of Common Stock (the ) equal to (x) the difference between the Daily Conversion Value and $25, divided by (y) the Daily VWAP for such day, subject to the Company's right to pay cash in lieu of all or a portion of such number of shares, as provided in Section 4.03(c).
"Daily Share Amount"
     (c) By the close of business on the Scheduled Trading Day prior to the first Scheduled Trading Day of the applicable Observation Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the ), and the Company will notify converting Holders by notifying the Trustee (the). With respect to any Notes that are converted on or after November 15, 2013, the Cash Percentage specified by the Company in the Cash Percentage Notice for the corresponding Observation Period will apply to all such conversions. If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, the amount of cash that the Company will deliver in lieu of all or the applicable portion of the Daily Share Amount in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Observation Period will equal (i) the Cash Percentage, multiplied by (ii) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day (assuming that the Company had not specified a Cash Percentage), multiplied by (iii) the Daily VWAP for such Trading Day. The number of shares deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Observation Period will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount (assuming that the Company had not specified a Cash Percentage) equal to 100% the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage in accordance with this Section 4.03(c), the Company shall settle the entire Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in such Observation Period in Common Stock (plus cash in lieu of fractional shares). The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice in respect of any Observation Period by notice to the Trustee; that the Trustee receives notice of such revocation by the close of
"Cash Percentage"
"Cash Percentage Notice"
minus
provided
 
business on the Scheduled Trading Day immediately prior to the first Scheduled Trading Day of such Observation Period.
     (d) Subject to Section 4.03(e) below, upon conversion, Holders shall not receive any separate cash payment for accrued and unpaid interest or Additional Interest, if any, unless such conversion occurs between a Regular Record Date and the Interest Payment Date to which it relates.
     (e) Upon the conversion of any Notes, the Holder will not be entitled to receive any separate cash payment for accrued and unpaid interest or Additional Interest, if any, except to the extent specified below. The Company's delivery to the Holder of cash or a combination of cash and Common Stock, if applicable, together with any cash payment for any fractional share of Common Stock, into which a Note is convertible will be deemed to satisfy in full the Company's obligation to pay the principal amount of the Notes so converted and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Conversion Date. As a result, accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Conversion Date will be deemed to be paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Notes are converted after the close of business on a Regular Record Date for the payment of interest, Holders of such Notes at the close of business on such Regular Record Date will receive the interest and Additional Interest, if any, payable on such Notes on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion. Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date to the opening of business on the immediately following Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by funds equal to the amount of interest and Additional Interest, if any, payable on the Notes so converted; that no such payment need be made (i) for conversions following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding March 15, 2014, (ii) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, or (iii) to the extent of any overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Note.
provided
     (f) The Company shall not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Notes. If multiple Notes shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares which shall be issuable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted hereby) so surrendered. If any fractional share of stock would be issuable upon the conversion of any Notes, the Company shall make payment therefor in cash in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock based on the Daily VWAP of the Common Stock on the final Trading Day of the applicable Observation Period.
     (g) Solely for purposes of determining the payments and deliveries due upon conversion under this Section 4.03, and notwithstanding the definition of "Trading Day" contained in Section 1.02, means a day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then
"Trading Day"
 
traded. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Daily VWAP must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "" means a Business Day.
Trading Day
     SECTION 4.04. . The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company if any of the following events occurs, except that the Company will not make any adjustment to the Conversion Rate if Holders of Notes participate, as a result of holding the Notes, in any of the transactions described under Section 4.04(a) (but only with respect to stock dividends or distributions), Section 4.04(b), Section 4.04(c), and Section 4.04(d), at the same time as holders of the Common Stock participate, without having to convert their Notes, as if such Holders held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect for such Notes immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such event.
Adjustment of Conversion Rate
     (a) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, exclusively issues shares of its Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination, then the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date for such share split or share combination. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 4.04(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     (b) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, issues to all or substantially all holders of the Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 60 calendar days after the announcement date of such issuance to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Common Stock at a price per share less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive
 
Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
To the extent such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or termination, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants had not been fixed. For the purposes of this Section 4.04(b), in determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, and in determining the aggregate exercise price payable for such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights or warrants and any amount payable on the exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, as shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors.
     (c) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distributes shares of any class of capital stock of the Company, evidences of its indebtedness, other assets or property of the Company or rights or warrants to acquire the Company's capital stock or other securities to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock, excluding:
 
     (i) dividends or distributions and rights or warrants as to which an adjustment was effected pursuant to Section 4.04(a) or Section 4.04(b);
     (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash; and
     (iii) Spin-Offs to which the provisions set forth below in this Section 4.04(c) shall apply;
then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the "FMV" (as defined above) of any distribution for purposes of this Section 4.04(c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if "FMV" (as defined above) is equal to or greater than "SP" (as defined above), in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, each Holder of Notes shall receive, at the same time and upon the same terms as holders of the Common Stock, the amount and kind of securities and assets such Holder would have received as if such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for the distribution of the securities or assets.
0
With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.04(c) where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit and such dividend or distribution is listed for trading on a securities exchange (a ""), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
 
where
The adjustment to the Conversion Rate under the preceding paragraph will occur on the last day of the Valuation Period; that in respect of any conversion during the Valuation Period, references above to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the Ex-Dividend Date of such Spin-Off and the Conversion Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
     For the purposes of this Section 4.04(c) (and subject in all respects to Section 4.11), rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's capital stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (a ): (1) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (2) are not exercisable; and (3) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 4.04(c), (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(c) will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under this Section 4.04(c). If any such right or warrant, including any such existing rights or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Supplemental Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Ex-Dividend Date of such deemed distribution (in which case the original rights or warrants shall be deemed to terminate and expire on such date without exercise by any of the holders). In addition, in the event of any distribution or deemed distribution of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect
"Trigger Event"
 
thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(c) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants which shall all have been redeemed or purchased without exercise by any Holders thereof, upon such final redemption or repurchase (x) the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued and (y) the Conversion Rate shall then again be readjusted to give effect to such distribution, deemed distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or purchase price received by holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming each such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or purchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants which shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
     For the purposes of this Section 4.04(c) and subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 4.04, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 4.04(c) applies which also includes one or both of:
then (1) such dividend or distribution, other than the Clause A Distribution and the Clause B Distribution, shall be deemed to be a dividend or distribution to which this Section 4.04(c) applies (the "") and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 4.04(c) with respect thereto shall then be made, and (2) the Clause A Distribution and Clause B Distribution shall be deemed to immediately follow the Clause C Distribution and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 4.04(a) and Section 4.04(b) with respect thereto shall then be made, except that, if determined by the Company, (I) the "Ex-Dividend Date" of the Clause A Distribution and the Clause B Distribution shall be deemed to be the Ex-Dividend Date of the Clause C Distribution and (II) any shares of Common Stock included in the Clause A Distribution or Clause B Distribution shall be deemed not to be "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on such Ex-Dividend Date or such effective date" within the meaning of Section 4.04(a) or "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on such Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of Section 4.04(b).
Clause C Distribution
     (d) (i) If any regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution made to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period exceeds $0.05 (the "Initial Dividend Threshold"), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
 
The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion Rate; that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 4.04(d).
provided
     (ii) If the Company pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
In the case of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.04(d), such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for the relevant dividend or distribution. If the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of the Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Last Reported Sale Price of a share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution, in lieu of the adjustment set forth above, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder of Notes shall have the right to receive on the date on which such cash dividend or
 
distribution is distributed to holders of Common Stock, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.
     (e) If the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
where
The adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(e) shall occur as of the close of business on the tenth Trading Day from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires; that in respect of any conversion within 10 Trading Days immediately following, and including, the expiration date of any tender or exchange offer, references with respect to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such
provided
 
lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the expiration date of such tender or exchange offer and the Conversion Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
     (f) The Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time of at least 20 Business Days, so long as the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to this Section 4.04(f), the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Notes a notice of the increase at least one day prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
     (g) The Company may (but shall not be required to) increase the Conversion Rate, in addition to any adjustments pursuant to Section 4.04(a), 4.04(b), 4.04(c), 4.04(d), 4.04(e) or 4.04(f), if the Board of Directors considers such increase to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock in connection with a dividend or distribution of shares (or rights to acquire shares) or similar event.
     (h) All calculations under this Article 4 shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent (including, in the case of any adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the resulting adjustment to the Conversion Price) or to the nearest one ten-thousandth of a share. No adjustment shall be required to be made for the Company's issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock or rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or such convertible or exchangeable securities, other than as provided in this Section 4.04 and in Section 4.11 hereof.
     (i) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume without inquiry that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to each Holder of the Notes. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
     (j) For purposes of this Section 4.04, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company so long as the Company does not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company, but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
     (k) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the application of the foregoing formulas set forth in this Section 4.04 would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made (other than as a result of a share combination).
 
     (l) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article 4, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made:
     (i) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Company's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
     (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security not described in clause (ii) above and outstanding as of the date the Notes were first issued;
     (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock; or
     (v) for accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes.
     (m) The Company shall not be required to make an adjustment in the Conversion Rate unless the adjustment would require a change of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate. However, the Company will carry forward any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate and make such carried forward adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1%, (i) upon any Conversion Date of Notes and (ii) on each Trading Day of any Observation Period.
     SECTION 4.05. . Whenever a provision of this Supplemental Indenture requires the calculation of Last Reported Sale Prices or Daily VWAP over a span of multiple days, the Board of Directors will make appropriate adjustments to such Last Reported Sale Prices or Daily VWAP, the Conversion Rate, or the amount due upon conversion to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which such Last Reported Sale Prices or Daily VWAP are to be calculated.
Certain Other Adjustments
     SECTION 4.06. . (a) If a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Company shall, under certain circumstances, increase the Conversion Rate for the Notes so surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below. A conversion of Notes shall be deemed for these purposes to be "in connection with" such Make-Whole Fundamental Change if the notice of conversion of the Notes is received by the Conversion Agent from, and including, the Effective Date of the Make-Whole Fundamental Change up to, and including, the Business Day immediately prior to the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date (or, in the case of an event that would have been a Fundamental Change but for the proviso in clause (2) of the definition thereof, the 35th Trading Day immediately following the Effective Date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change).
Adjustments Upon Certain Fundamental Changes
Additional Shares
 
     (b) Upon surrender of Notes for conversion in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Company shall have the right to deliver, in lieu of shares of Common Stock, including the Additional Shares, cash or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock as provided under Section 4.01(a)(iv); provided, however, that if, at the effective time of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Reference Property is comprised entirely of cash, then, for any conversion of Notes following the effective date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the amounts deliverable by the Company shall be calculated based solely on the "Stock Price" (as defined below) for the Make-Whole Fundamental Change and shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the Conversion Rate (including any adjustment for Additional Shares) multiplied by such Stock Price. In such event, the amounts deliverable by the Company shall be determined and paid to holders in cash on the third Business Day following the Conversion Date.
     (c) The number of Additional Shares, if any, by which the Conversion Rate will be increased will be determined by reference to the table attached as Schedule A hereto, based on the date on which the Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs or becomes effective (the ) and the price (the ) paid (or deemed paid) per share of the Common Stock in the Fundamental Change. If the holders of the Common Stock receive only cash in a Make-Whole Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the ten Trading-Day period ending on, and including, the Trading Day preceding the Effective Date of the Make-Whole Fundamental Change.
"Effective Date"
"Stock Price"
     The exact Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in the table in , in which case:
Schedule A
     (i) If the Stock Price is between two Stock Prices in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Prices and the earlier and later Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year.
     (ii) If the Stock Price is greater than $60.00 per share (subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Stock Prices set forth in the column headings of the table in Schedule A pursuant to subsection (d) below), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
     (iii) If the Stock Price is less than $6.62 per share (subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Stock Prices set forth in the column headings of the table in Schedule A pursuant to subsection (d) below), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Conversion Rate exceed 151.0574 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 4.04.
     (d) The Stock Prices set forth in the column headings of the table in Schedule A hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is otherwise
 
adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares set forth in such table shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 4.04.
     (e) The Company shall notify the Holders of Notes of the Effective Date of any Make-Whole Fundamental Change and issue a press release announcing such Effective Date no later than five business days after such Effective Date.
     SECTION 4.07.
Effect of Recapitalization, Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
     (a) If any of the following events occur:
     (i) any recapitalization or reclassification of, or change in, the Common Stock (other than changes resulting from a subdivision or combination);
     (ii) a consolidation, merger or combination involving the Company; or
     (iii) a sale, lease or other transfer to a third party of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries substantially as an entirety; or
     (iv) any statutory share exchange;
in each case as a result of which the Common Stock would be converted into, or exchanged for, or would be reclassified or changed into, stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) (any such event, a ), then at the effective time of such Merger Event, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture) providing that at and after the effective time of such Merger Event, the right to convert a Note will be changed into a right to convert such Note as set forth in this Indenture into the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversation Rate prior to such Merger Event would have owned or been entitled to receive (the , with each meaning the type and amount of Reference Property that a holder of one share of Common Stock is entitled to receive) upon such Merger Event; provided, however, that at and after the effective time of the Merger Event the conversion obligation shall be calculated and settled in accordance with Section 4.03 such that (i) the amount payable in cash upon conversion of the Notes as set forth under Section 4.03 will continue to be payable in cash, (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock (if the Company does not elect to pay cash in lieu of all such shares) deliverable upon conversion of the Notes under Section 4.03 will be instead deliverable in the amount and type of Reference Property that a holder of that number of shares of Common Stock would have been entitled to receive in such Merger Event and (iii) the Daily VWAP will be calculated based on the value of a unit of Reference Property.
"Merger Event"
"Reference Property"
"unit of Reference Property"
 
     If, as a result of the Merger Event, each share of Common Stock is converted into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration (determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election), then (x) the Reference Property into which the Notes will be convertible will be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election, and (y) the unit of Reference Property for purposes of the foregoing sentence shall refer to the consideration referred to in clause (x) attributable to one share of Common Stock.
     The Company shall not become a party to any such Merger Event unless its terms are consistent with this Section 4.07. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 4 in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the board of directors of the successor Person. If, in the case of any such recapitalization, reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, sale, lease, other transfer or statutory share exchange, the Reference Property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such reorganization, reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, sale, lease, other transfer or statutory share exchange, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person.
     (b) The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder, at the address of such Holder as it appears on the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture. The above provisions of this Section 4.07 shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, combinations, sales and conveyances. If this Section 4.07 applies to any Merger Event, Section 4.04 shall not apply.
     (c) In connection with any Merger Event, the Initial Dividend Threshold will subject to adjustment as described in clause (i), clause (ii) or clause (iii) below, as the case may be.
     (i) In the case of a Merger Event in which the Reference Property (determined, as appropriate, pursuant to the second paragraph of subsection (a) above and excluding any dissenters' appraisal rights) is composed entirely of shares of common stock (the ""), the Initial Dividend Threshold at and after the effective time of such Merger Event will be equal to (x) the Initial Dividend Threshold immediately prior to the effective time of such Merger Event, (y) the number of shares of Merger Common Stock that a holder of one share of Common Stock would receive in such Merger Event (such quotient rounded down to nearest cent).
Merger Common Stock
divided by
     (ii) In the case of a Merger Event in which the Reference Property (determined, as appropriate, pursuant to the second paragraph of subsection (a) above and excluding any dissenters' appraisal rights) is composed in part of shares of Merger Common Stock, the Initial Dividend Threshold at and after the effective time of such Merger Event will be equal to (x) the Initial Dividend Threshold immediately prior to the effective time of such Merger Event, (y) the Merger Valuation Percentage for such Merger Event (such quotient rounded down to nearest cent).
multiplied by
 
     (iii) For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of a Merger Event in which the Reference Property (determined, as appropriate, pursuant to the second paragraph of subsection (a) above and excluding any dissenters' appraisal rights) is composed entirely of consideration other than shares of common stock, the Initial Dividend Threshold at and after the effective time of such Merger Event will be equal to zero.
     (d) For purposes of subsection (c) of this Section 4.07, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     (i) The "" for any Merger Event shall be equal to (x) the arithmetic average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of one share of such Merger Common Stock over the relevant Merger Valuation Period (determined as if references to "Common Stock" in the definition of "Last Reported Sale Price" were references to the "Merger Common Stock" for such Merger Event), (y) the arithmetic average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of one share of Common Stock over the relevant Merger Valuation Period.
Merger Valuation Percentage
divided by
     (ii) The "" for any Merger Event means the five consecutive Trading Day period immediately preceding, but excluding, the effective date for such Merger Event.
Merger Valuation Period
     SECTION 4.08. . The Company will pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Notes pursuant hereto; provided, however, that if such documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax is due because the Holder of such Notes has requested that shares of Common Stock be issued in a name other than that of the Holder of the Notes converted, then such taxes will be paid by the Holder, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any stock certificate evidencing such shares unless and until the Holder shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
Taxes on Shares Issued
     SECTION 4.09. . The Company shall reserve, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to satisfy conversion of the Notes from time to time as such Notes are presented for conversion (assuming that, at the time of the computation of such number of shares or securities, all such Notes would be converted by a single Holder).
Reservation of Shares; Shares to be Fully Paid; Compliance With Governmental Requirements; Listing of Common Stock
     The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon conversion of Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free from any tax, lien or charge (other than those created by the Holder).
     The Company shall list or cause to have quoted any shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of Notes on each national securities exchange or over-the-counter or other domestic market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
 
     SECTION 4.10. . The Trustee and any Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Notes to determine or calculate the Conversion Rate, to determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or to confirm the accuracy of any such adjustment when made or the appropriateness of the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock or of any other securities or property that may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Notes; and the Trustee and the Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Notes for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article 4. The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including without limitation its right to be compensated, reimbursed, and indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, including its capacity as Conversion Agent and if it is so appointed by the Company and accepts such appointment, as Bid Solicitation Agent.
Responsibility of Trustee
     SECTION 4.11. . In case:
Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions
     (a) the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.04; or
     (b) the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of all or substantially all of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.04 or Section 4.12 hereof; or
     (c) of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or of the sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries; or
     (d) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
then, in each case (unless notice of such event is otherwise required pursuant to another provision of this Supplemental Indenture), the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent and to be mailed to each Holder of Notes at such Holder's address appearing on a list of Holders of Notes, which the Company shall provide to the Trustee, as promptly as practicable but in any event at least 10 days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend (or any other distribution) or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend,
 
distribution or rights or warrants are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, lease, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend (or any other distribution), reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
     SECTION 4.12. . Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes pursuant to this Article 4 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights, if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any stockholder rights plan adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if prior to any conversion such rights have separated from the shares of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights agreement, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company had distributed to all holders of the Common Stock, shares of the Company's capital stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property, rights or warrants as described in Section 4.04(c) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.
Stockholder Rights Plan
     SECTION 5.01. . In addition to the Events of Default specified in Section 501 of the Original Indenture, each of the following events shall be an "" wherever used herein with respect to the Notes :
Events of Default
Event of Default
     (a) failure by the Company to comply with its obligation to convert the Notes in accordance with the Indenture upon exercise of a Holder's conversion right in accordance with Article 4 hereof;
     (b) failure by the Company to provide a Fundamental Change Company Notice pursuant to Section 3.01(b) or notice of a specified corporate transaction required by Section 4.01(a)(iii) or Section 4.01(a)(iv) in accordance with the relevant Section, in each case when due;
     (c) failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 801 of the Original Indenture; and
     (d) a final judgment for the payment of $50 million or more (excluding any amounts covered by insurance) rendered against the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, which judgment is not discharged or stayed within 60 days after (i) the date on which the right to appeal or petition for review thereof has expired if no such appeal or review has commenced or (ii) the date on which all rights to appeal or petition for review have been extinguished.
 
     SECTION 5.02. . Notwithstanding any provisions of the Indenture to the contrary, if the Company so elects, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to any obligation to file documents and reports with the Trustee as required by Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act, Section 2.04 of this Supplemental Indenture, or Section 703 of the Original Indenture shall for the first 180 days following the occurrence of such Event of Default consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Notes equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the Notes (""). In order to elect to pay Additional Interest as the sole remedy during the first 180 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default described in the preceding sentence, the Company must (i) give notice to Holders of the Notes, the Trustee and the Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the 5th Business Day after the date on which such Event of Default occurs and (ii) pay such Additional Interest on or before the date on which such Event of Default first occurs. Upon the failure to timely give all Holders, the Trustee and the Paying Agent such notice or to pay such Additional Interest, the Notes will be subject to immediate acceleration as provided in Section 502 of the Original Indenture. On the 180th day after such Event of Default occurs (if such Event of Default is not cured or waived prior to such 180th day), the Notes shall be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 502 of the Original Indenture. This Section 5.02 shall not affect the rights of Holders of Notes in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. Whenever in the Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of interest on, or in respect of, any Note, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Interest provided for in this Section 5.02 to the extent that, in such context, Additional Interest is, was or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.02, and express mention of the payment of Additional Interest (if applicable) in any provision shall not be construed as excluding Additional Interest in those provisions where such express mention is not made.
Additional Interest
Additional Interest
     SECTION 5.03. In addition to any obligations of the Company under Section 703 of the Original Indenture, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, (i) within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate indicating whether or not the signers thereof have knowledge of the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Indenture during such fiscal year, and (ii) within 5 days after the occurrence thereof, written notice of any events that would constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture, the status of such events and the action that the Company is taking or proposes to take in respect thereof.
Company Compliance Certificates and Notice of Defaults.
     SECTION 6.01. . (a) The satisfaction and discharge provisions set forth in this Article 6 shall, with respect to the Notes, supersede in their entirety Articles 4 and 14 of the Original Indenture, and all references in the Original Indenture to Articles 4 and 14 thereof and satisfaction and discharge provisions therein, as the case may be, shall, with respect to the Notes, be deemed to be references to this Article 6 and the satisfaction and discharge provisions set forth in this Article 6, respectively. When (i) the Company shall deliver to the Registrar for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled, or (ii) all the Notes not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have
Satisfaction and Discharge of the Supplemental Indenture
 
become due and payable (whether at Stated Maturity for the payment of the principal amount thereof, on any Fundamental Change Purchase Date or following the last day of the applicable Observation Period upon conversion or otherwise) and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, or deliver to the Holders, as applicable, cash funds and shares of Common Stock, as applicable, sufficient to pay all amounts due (and shares of Common Stock deliverable following conversion, if applicable) on all of such Notes (other than any Notes that shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and interest due, accompanied, except in the event the Notes are due and payable solely in cash at the Stated Maturity of the Notes or upon an earlier Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by a verification report as to the sufficiency of the deposited amount from an independent certified accountant or other financial professional reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which may include any of the Underwriters), and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Supplemental Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to (A) rights hereunder of Holders of the Notes to receive all amounts owing upon the Notes and the other rights, duties and obligations of Holders of the Notes, as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the amounts, if any, so deposited with the Trustee and (B) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee hereunder), and the Trustee, on written demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 102 of the Original Indenture and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Supplemental Indenture; the Company, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee, including the fees and expenses of its counsel, and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee in connection with this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes.
     SECTION 6.02. . Subject to Section 6.04, all monies deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.01 shall be held in trust for the sole benefit of the Holders of the Notes, and such monies shall be applied by the Trustee to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company if acting as its own Paying Agent), to the Holders of the particular Notes for the payment or redemption of which such monies have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest, if any.
Deposited Monies to Be Held in Trust by Trustee
     SECTION 6.03. . Upon the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all monies then held by any Paying Agent (if other than the Trustee) shall, upon written request of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such monies.
Paying Agent to Repay Monies Held
     SECTION 6.04. . Subject to the requirements of applicable law, any monies deposited with or paid to the Trustee for payment of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the Holders of the Notes for two years after the date upon which the principal of or interest, if any, on such Notes, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee on demand, and all liability of the Trustee shall thereupon cease with respect to such monies; and the Holder of any of the Notes shall thereafter look only to the Company for any
Return of Unclaimed Monies
 
payment that such Holder of the Notes may be entitled to collect unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
     SECTION 6.05. . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 6.02 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under the Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 6.01 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 6.02; , , that if the Company makes any payment of interest on or principal of any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
provided
however
     SECTION 7.01. . In addition to any permitted amendment or supplement to the Indenture pursuant to Section 901 of the Original Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without notice to or the consent of any Holder of the Notes:
Amendments or Supplements Without Consent of Holders
     (a) to add guarantees with respect to the Notes;
     (b) to conform this Supplemental Indenture and the form or terms of the Notes to the section entitled "Description of Notes" as set forth in the final prospectus supplement related to the offering and sale of the Notes dated March 24, 2009; or
     (c) to comply with their obligations to execute and deliver a supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.07 of this Supplemental Indenture.
     SECTION 7.02. . The Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture with respect to the Notes and the Notes as provided in Sections 901 and 902 of the Original Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision and in addition to the provisions of Section 902 of the Original Indenture, without the consent of each Holder of an outstanding Note affected thereby, no amendment or waiver, including a waiver in relation to a past Event of Default, may:
Amendments, Supplements or Waivers With Consent of Holders
     (a) make any change that adversely affects the conversion rights of any Notes; or
     (b) reduce any Fundamental Change Purchase Price or amend or modify in any manner adverse to the Holders of Notes the Company's obligation to make any such payment, whether through an amendment or waiver of provisions in the covenants or definitions related thereto or otherwise.
 
     SECTION 8.01. . The provisions of Section 1007 of the Original Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
Limitations on Liens
     SECTION 9.01. . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH OF THE NOTES.
Governing Law
     SECTION 9.02. . If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the Notes or any earlier required repurchase date would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment shall accrue in respect of the delay.
Payments on Business Days
     SECTION 9.03. . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall be construed to constitute a security interest under the Uniform Commercial Code or similar legislation, as now or hereafter enacted and in effect, in any jurisdiction.
No Security Interest Created
     SECTION 9.04. . This Supplemental Indenture is hereby made subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or the Original Indenture that is required to be included in an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act
     SECTION 9.05. . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent, any Bid Solicitation Agent, any authenticating agent, any Registrar and their successors hereunder or the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture
     SECTION 9.06. . Except as otherwise provided in this Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determinations of any Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock, accrued interest payable on the Notes and the Conversion Rate. The Company shall make all these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the Company's calculations shall be final and binding on Holders of Notes. The Company shall provide a schedule of its calculations to each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent (if different than the Trustee), and each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent (if different than the Trustee) is entitled to rely conclusively upon the accuracy of the Company's calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder of Notes upon the request of that Holder at the sole cost and expense of the Company.
Calculations
 
     SECTION 9.07. . The table of contents and the titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
     SECTION 9.08. . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
     SECTION 9.09. . In the event any provision of this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, then (to the extent permitted by law) the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired.
Severability
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
SCHEDULE A
The following table sets forth the amount, if any, by which the Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will increase pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Supplemental Indenture for each Stock Price and Effective Date set forth below:
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
CUSIP No. 651229 AH9
     Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, THREE HUNDRED FORTY-FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($345,000,000) (or such lesser principal amount as shall be specified in the "Schedule of Exchanges of Securities" attached hereto) on March 15, 2014 unless earlier converted or repurchased, and to pay interest thereon as set forth in the manner, at the rates and to the Persons set forth in the Indenture.
Company
     This Note shall bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per annum from March 30, 2009 or from the most recent date to which interest had been paid or provided to, but excluding, the next scheduled Interest Payment Date, until the principal hereof shall be repaid. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15, commencing on September 15, 2009, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Additional Interest will be payable at the option of the Company on the terms set forth in Section 5.02 of the within-mentioned Supplemental Indenture.
     The Company will pay interest on overdue principal, and, to the extent lawful, on overdue interest, in each case at a rate of 5.50% per annum. Interest not paid when due and any interest on principal or interest not paid when due will be paid to Holders on a special record date, which will be the 15th day preceding the date fixed by the Company for the payment of such interest, whether or not such day is a Business Day. At least 15 days before a special record date, the Company will send to each Holder and to the Trustee a notice that sets forth the special record date, the payment date and the amount of interest to be paid.
     The Company shall pay principal of and interest on this Note, so long as such Note is a Global Note, in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered Holder of such Note. The Company shall pay principal of any Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) at the office or agency designated by the Company for that purpose. The Company has initially designated the Trustee as its Paying Agent and Registrar in respect of the Notes and its agency in New York, New York as a place where Notes may be presented for payment or for registration of transfer. The Company may, however, change the Paying Agent or Registrar for the Notes without prior notice to the Holders thereof, and the Company may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. Interest on the Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) will be payable (i) to Holders of the Notes having an aggregate principal amount of Notes of $5,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holders of these Notes at their address in the Security Register and (ii) to Holders having an aggregate principal amount of Notes in excess of $5,000,000, either by check mailed to each Holder at its address in the Security Register or,
 
upon application by a Holder to the Registrar not later than the relevant Regular Record Date, by wire transfer in immediately available funds to that Holder's account within the United States, which application shall remain in effect until that Holder notifies, in writing, the Registrar to the contrary.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     In the case of any conflict between this Note and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall control. This Note, for all purposes, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC. has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
     Dated: March 30, 2009
Attest:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     Dated: March 30, 2009
 
     This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued under an Indenture dated as of November 1, 1995, as previously amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof (herein called the "") and as further supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture dated as of March ___, 2009 (herein called the "" and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "") by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., herein called the "", and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. Additional Notes may be issued in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, subject to certain conditions specified in the Indenture.
Notes
Original Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Trustee
     This Note is not subject to redemption at the option of the Company prior to March 15, 2014 and, for the avoidance of doubt, this Note is not subject to the provisions of Article 11 of the Original Indenture.
     This Note is not subject to the provisions in Section 1007 or of the Original Indenture, and the provisions in Article 6 of the Supplemental Indenture supersede the entirety of Articles 4 and 14 of the Original Indenture.
     Upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Holder has the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase all of such Holder's Notes or any portion thereof (in principal amounts of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date at a price equal to the Fundamental Change Purchase Price.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder hereof has the right, at its option, during certain periods and upon the occurrence of certain conditions specified in the Indenture, prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding March 15, 2014, to convert this Note or a portion thereof that is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, into cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be converted and cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the Company's discretion, in respect of the remainder, if any, at the applicable Conversion Rate specified in the Indenture, as adjusted from time to time as provided in the Indenture.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company will make all payments and deliveries in respect of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and the principal amount on the Stated Maturity thereof, as the case may be, to the holder who surrenders a Note to the Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Note. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes to be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, in case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of and interest on all Notes may be declared due and payable, by either the Trustee or Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding, and upon said declaration shall become due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture; that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or (6) of the Original Indenture, the principal amount of, and interest on, all the Notes shall automatically become due and payable.
provided
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin and currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
     Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or Trustee may treat the Person in whose name the Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     All defined terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this Note, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
SCHEDULE A
     The initial principal amount of this Registered Global Security is THREE HUNDRED FORTY-FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($345,000,000). The following, exchanges, purchases or conversions of a part of this Registered Global Security have been made:
 
EXHIBIT B
To: Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
               The undersigned owner of this Note hereby irrevocably exercises the option to convert this Note, or a portion hereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple hereof) below designated, into cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be converted and cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the Company's discretion, in respect of the remainder, if any, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, and directs that cash payable and any shares of Common Stock issuable and deliverable upon conversion, together with any check in payment for fractional shares of Common Stock, and any Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be paid or issued and delivered, as the case may be, to the registered Holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, if this notice is being delivered on a date after the close of business on a Regular Record Date and prior to the opening of business on the related Interest Payment Date, this notice is accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date of the principal of this Note to be converted. If any shares of Common Stock are to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay all transfer taxes payable with respect hereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Note.
Principal amount to be converted (in an integral multiple of $1,000, if less than all):
 
Fill in for registration of any shares of Common Stock and Notes if to be issued otherwise than to the registered Holder.
 
EXHIBIT C
To: Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and specifying the Fundamental Change Purchase Date and requests and instructs the Company to repay to the registered holder hereof in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Note and the Indenture referred to in this Note (1) the entire principal amount of this Note, or the portion thereof (that is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, and (2) if such Fundamental Change Purchase Date does not fall during the period after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, such Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
In the case of certificated Notes, the certificate numbers of the Notes to be repurchased are as set forth below:
Dated:
                    
 
EXHIBIT D
     For value received hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto (Please insert social security or Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    

Exhibit 5.1
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Three Glenlake Parkway Atlanta, Georgia 30328
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel to Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with (i) a registration statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-149887) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 25, 2008 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Registration Statement, which became effective upon filing pursuant to Rule 462(e) under the Securities Act, relates to the issuance and sale from time to time, pursuant to Rule 415 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Act, of, among other securities, senior and subordinated debt securities, consisting of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness in one or more series. We have also acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Company's 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 in the aggregate principal amount of $345,000,000 (the "Convertible Notes") in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated as of March 24, 2009 among the Company and the underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement").
     The Notes are to be issued under an indenture, dated as of November 1, 1995, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association)), as trustee (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of March 30, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Base Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 3, 1996 and the Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 30, 2009.
     This opinion letter is being delivered in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
     In connection with our opinion, we have examined the Registration Statement, including the exhibits thereto, and such other documents, corporate records and instruments, and have examined such laws and regulations, as we have deemed necessary for the purposes of this opinion. In making our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity with the originals of all
 
documents submitted to us as copies and the legal capacity of all natural persons. As to matters of fact material to our opinions in this letter, we have relied on certificates and statements from officers and other employees of the Company, public officials and other appropriate persons.
     In rendering the opinions in this letter we have assumed, without independent investigation or verification, that each party to each of the documents executed or to be executed, other than the Company, (a) is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) has full power and authority to execute such documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder, (c) has taken all necessary action to authorize execution of such documents on its behalf by the persons executing same, (d) has properly executed and delivered, or will properly execute and deliver, each of such documents to which it is a party, and (e) has duly obtained all consents or approvals of any nature from and made all filings with any governmental authorities necessary for such party to execute, deliver or perform its obligations under such documents to which it is a party. In addition, in rendering such opinions we have assumed, without independent investigation or verification, (i) that the execution and delivery of, and performance of their respective obligations under, the documents executed or to be executed by each party thereto, other than the Company, do not violate any law, rule, regulation, agreement or instrument binding upon such party and (ii) that each of such documents is the legal, valid and binding obligation of, and enforceable against, each party thereto, other than the Company.
     We make no representation that we have independently investigated or verified any of the matters that we have assumed for the purposes of this opinion letter.
     Based on the foregoing and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that, when any applicable state securities laws or Blue Sky laws have been complied with, (i) the Notes, when issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Company Order required under 303 of the Indenture, against payment of the agreed-upon consideration therefor, will be legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and (ii) the shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") issued upon conversion of the Notes will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, assuming the conversion of the Notes is in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
     The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications:
     A. The opinions expressed herein with respect to the legality, validity, binding nature and enforceability of the Notes are subject to (i) applicable laws relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, whether now or hereafter in effect and (ii) general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, laches, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the principles regarding when injunctive or other equitable remedies will be available (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
     B. The foregoing opinions are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of Delaware (which includes those statutory provisions and all
 
applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and the reported judicial decisions interpreting such laws) and the federal laws of the United States of America, and we express no opinion as to the laws of any other jurisdiction.
     The opinions expressed in this opinion letter are as of the date of this opinion letter only and as to laws covered hereby only as they are in effect on that date, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement such opinion to reflect any facts or circumstances that may come to our attention after that date or any changes in law that may occur or become effective after that date. The opinions herein are limited to the matters expressly set forth in this opinion letter, and no opinion or representation is given or may be inferred beyond the opinions expressly set forth in this opinion letter.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 30, 2009 and to the reference to us under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009 with respect to the Notes and the prospectus dated March 25, 2008 contained in the Registration Statement.

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
Re: Call Option Transaction
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the call option transaction entered into between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Dealer
Counterparty
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the prospectus dated March 25, 2008, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009 (as supplemented, the "") relating to the USD 300,000,000 principal amount of 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2014, (the "" and each USD 1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, a "") issued by Counterparty pursuant to an indenture dated November 1, 1995 between Counterparty and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association)), as trustee (the "") (the ""), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture between Counterparty and the Trustee to be dated March 30, 2009 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Prospectus, the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that (i) definitions set forth in the Indenture which are also defined herein by reference to the Indenture and (ii) sections of the Indenture that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus. If any such definitions in the Indenture or any such sections of the Indenture differ from the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus, the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus will govern for purposes of this Confirmation. The parties further acknowledge that the Indenture section numbers used herein are based on the draft of the Indenture last reviewed by Dealer as of the date of this Confirmation, and if any such section numbers are changed in the Indenture as executed, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties. For the avoidance of doubt, references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Prospectus
Convertible Notes
Convertible Note
Trustee
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
case may be, herein are references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, as in effect on the date of its execution and if the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture is amended following its execution, any such amendment will be disregarded for purposes of this Confirmation unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
     Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
     1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law (without reference to the choice of law doctrine)) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
     2. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
6. Offices:
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: London
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
8. Representations and Warranties of Counterparty
The representations and warranties of Counterparty set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of March 24, 2009 among Counterparty and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Counterparty hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
(A) With respect to any Transfer Options, Counterparty shall not be released from its notice and indemnification obligations pursuant to Section 9(b) or any obligations under Section 9(n) or 9(s) of this Confirmation;
(B) Any Transfer Options shall only be transferred or assigned to a third party that is a United States person (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended);
(C) Such transfer or assignment shall be effected on terms, including any reasonable undertakings by such third party (including, but not limited to, an undertaking with respect to compliance with applicable securities laws in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of Dealer, will not expose Dealer to material risks under applicable securities laws) and execution of any documentation and delivery of legal opinions with respect to securities laws and other matters by such third party and Counterparty, as are requested and reasonably satisfactory to Dealer;
(D) Dealer will not, as a result of such transfer and assignment, be required to pay the transferee on any payment date an amount under Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement greater than an amount that Dealer would have been required to pay to Counterparty in the absence of such transfer and assignment;
(E) An Event of Default, Potential Event of Default or Termination Event will not occur as a result of such transfer and assignment;
 
(F) Without limiting the generality of clause (B), Counterparty shall cause the transferee to make such Payee Tax Representations and to provide such tax documentation as may be reasonably requested by Dealer to permit Dealer to determine that results described in clauses (D) and (E) will not occur upon or after such transfer and assignment; and
(G) Counterparty shall be responsible for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred by Dealer in connection with such transfer or assignment.
(ii) Dealer may, without Counterparty's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under the Transaction to any third party with a rating for its long term, unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness equal to or better than the greater of (x) the credit rating of Dealer at the time of the transfer and (y) A- by Standard and Poor's Rating Group, Inc. or its successor (""), or A3 by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. ("") or, if either S&P or Moody's ceases to rate such debt, at least an equivalent rating or better by a substitute rating agency mutually agreed by Counterparty and Dealer. If at any time at which (1) the Section 16 Percentage exceeds 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage exceeds 14.5%, or (3) the Share Amount exceeds the Post-Effective Limit (if any applies), Dealer is unable after using its commercially reasonable efforts to effect a transfer or assignment of Options to a third party on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer such that (1) the Section 16 Percentage will be equal to or less than 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage will be equal to or less than 14.5%, and (3) the Share Amount will be equal to or less than any such Post-Effective Limit, then Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of the Transaction (the ""), such that following such partial termination (1) the Section 16 Percentage will be equal to or less than 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage will be equal to or less than 14.5%, and (3) the Share Amount will be equal to or less than such Post-Effective Limit. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a Terminated Portion, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the number of Options underlying the Terminated Portion, (2) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) the Terminated Portion shall be the sole Affected Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 9(l) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this sentence as if Counterparty was not the Affected Party). The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the number of Shares that Dealer and each person subject to aggregation of Shares with Dealer under Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder directly or indirectly beneficially own (as defined under Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the product of (x) the Number of Options and (y) the Option Entitlement and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding. The "" as of any day is the number of Shares that Dealer and any person whose ownership position would be aggregated with that of Dealer (Dealer or any such person, a "") under any law, rule, regulation or regulatory order that for any reason becomes applicable to ownership of Shares after the Trade Date (""), owns, beneficially owns, constructively owns, controls, holds the power to vote or otherwise meets a relevant definition of ownership of under the Applicable Laws, as determined by Dealer in its reasonable discretion. The "" means (x) the minimum number of Shares that would give rise to reporting or registration obligations or other requirements (including obtaining prior approval from any person or entity) of a Dealer Person, or would result in an adverse effect on a Dealer Person, under the Applicable
S&P
Moody's
Terminated Portion
Section 16 Percentage
Option Equity Percentage
Share Amount
Dealer Person
Applicable Laws
Post-Effective Limit
 
Laws, as determined by Dealer in its reasonable discretion, (y) 1% of the number of Shares outstanding.
minus
(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares or other securities, or make or receive any payment in cash, to or from Counterparty, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities, or to make or receive such payment in cash, and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
Very truly yours,
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Exhibit 10.2
 EXECUTION VERSION
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
Re: Warrants
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Warrants issued by Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Company
Dealer
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""), are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. This Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Option Transaction within the meaning set forth in the Equity Definitions.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
     Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Company as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Company had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law (without reference to choice of law doctrine)) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
6. Offices:
The Office of Company for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Company is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: London
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
8. Representations and Warranties of Company
The representations and warranties of Company set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of March 24, 2009 among Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Company hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
(A) Section 11.2(a) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the words "an"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(B) Section 11.2(c) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (x) replacing the words "a diluting or concentrative" with "an", (y) adding the phrase "or Warrants" after the words "the relevant Shares" in the same sentence and (z) deleting the phrase "(provided that no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)" and replacing it with the phrase "(and, for the avoidance of doubt, adjustments may be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)."
(C) Section 11.2(e)(vii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the word "a material"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(D) Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer."
 
(x) deleting (1) subsection (A) in its entirety, (2) the phrase "or (B)" following subsection (A) and (3) the phrase "in each case" in subsection (B); and
(y) deleting the phrase "neither the Non-Hedging Party nor the Lending Party lends Shares in the amount of the Hedging Shares or" in the penultimate sentence.
(x) adding the word "or" immediately before subsection "(B)" and deleting the comma at the end of subsection (A); and
(y) (1) deleting subsection (C) in its entirety, (2) deleting the word "or" immediately preceding subsection (C) and (3) deleting the penultimate sentence in its entirety and replacing it with the sentence "The Hedging Party will determine the Cancellation Amount payable by one party to the other."
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, upon the occurrence of one of the following events, with respect to this Transaction, (1) Dealer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement, and (2) Company shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction:
(A) Consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of Company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Shares will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of Company's subsidiaries; that a transaction where the holders of all classes of Company's common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such event shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any event set forth in this clause (A) shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event if 100% of the consideration received or to be received by holders of the Shares, excluding cash payments for fractional Shares, in connection with such event consists of shares of common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Global Select Market (or any of their respective successors) or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such event.
provided, however,
(B) (I) Company or any of its subsidiary defaults (as principal or as guarantor or other surety) in the payment of any principal of or premium or make-whole amount or interest on any debt that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least $50,000,000 beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto resulting in such debt becoming or being declared due and payable or (II) Company or any of its subsidiaries fails to perform or comply with any term of any evidence of any debt in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $50,000,000 or of any mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating thereto or any other condition exists, and as a consequence of such failure or condition such debt has become, or has been declared, due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment, or (III) as a consequence of the occurrence or continuation of any event or condition (other than the passage of time or the right of the holder of debt to convert such debt into cash or cash and equity interests), Company or any of its subsidiaries has become obligated to purchase or repay debt before its stated maturity
 
or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $50,000,000.
(C) A "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Company, its subsidiaries and its and their employee benefit plans, has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the common equity of Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of such common equity.
(D) Dealer, despite using commercially reasonable efforts, is unable or reasonably determines that it is impractical or illegal, to hedge its exposure with respect to this Transaction in the public market without registration under the Securities Act or as a result of any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures generally applicable to transactions of the same type as the Transaction (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Dealer).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
Very truly yours,
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Exhibit 10.3
EXECUTION VERSION
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
          March 24, 2009
Re: Call Option Confirmation and Warrant Confirmation
     Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") concurrently herewith are entering into a call option transaction (the "") to purchase from Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "") and a warrant transaction (the "", together with the Call Option Transaction, the "") to sell to Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "", together with the Call Option Confirmation, the "").
Company
Dealer
Call Option Transaction
Call Option Confirmation
Warrant Transaction
Transactions
Warrant Confirmation
Confirmations
     This letter agreement (the "") hereby confirms the agreement between Dealer and Company as follows:
Letter Agreement
     1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Call Option Confirmation or the Warrant Confirmation, as applicable.
Terms Used but Not Defined Herein
     2. . Company represents and warrants to Dealer that it is not entering into this Letter Agreement (i) on the basis of, and it is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to itself or the Shares (ii) in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities (other than the Convertible Notes), a self tender offer for equity securities or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
Representations and Warranties of Company
     3. . If the Underwriters (the "") party to the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of the date hereof among Company, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the Underwriters party thereto, exercise their option to purchase additional Convertible Notes (the ""), then on the closing date for the purchase and sale of the Additional Convertible Notes, (i) the Number of Options will be automatically increased by additional Options (the "") equal to the number of Additional Convertible Notes in denominations of USD 1,000 principal amount issued pursuant to such exercise; (ii) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Options and USD 200.00 shall be paid by Company to Dealer; (iii) the Number of Warrants will be automatically increased by additional Warrants (the "") in proportion to such Additional Convertible Notes; and (iv) an
Amendment
Underwriters
Underwriting Agreement
Additional Convertible Notes
Additional Options
Additional Warrants
 
additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Warrants and USD 0.8176 shall be paid by Dealer to the Company.
     4. . In the event the sale of Convertible Notes is not consummated with the Underwriters for any reason by the close of business in New York on March 30, 2009 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties) (March 30, 2009 or such later date, the "") or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, on the Subsequent Closing Date as defined in the Underwriting Agreement (the "" and the Closing Date or the Subsequent Closing Date, as applicable, the ""), the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and Additional Warrants) shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and the Additional Warrants) and all of the respective rights and obligations of Dealer and Company under the Transactions, the Additional Options or Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) each party shall be released and discharged by the other party from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of the other party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date; that Company shall purchase from Dealer on the Early Unwind Date all Shares purchased by Dealer or one or more of its affiliates in connection with the Transactions, up to a maximum of 3,607,948 Shares, at the then prevailing market price as determined by the Calculation Agent. Dealer and Company represent and acknowledge to the other that, subject to the proviso included in this Section, upon an Early Unwind, all obligations with respect to the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
Early Unwind
Closing Date
Subsequent Closing Date
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
provided
     5.  This Letter Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
.
Counterparts
     6. . The provisions of this Letter Agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine).
Governing Law
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Letter Agreement and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
Very truly yours,

Exhibit 10.4
EXECUTION VERSION
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
          March 24, 2009
Re: Call Option Transaction
          The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the call option transaction entered into between Bank of America, N.A. ("") and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Dealer
Counterparty
Transaction
          The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the prospectus dated March 25, 2008, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2009 (as supplemented, the "") relating to the USD 300,000,000 principal amount of 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2014, (the "" and each USD 1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, a "") issued by Counterparty pursuant to an indenture dated November 1, 1995 between Counterparty and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association)), as trustee (the "") (the ""), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture between Counterparty and the Trustee to be dated March 30, 2009 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Prospectus, the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that (i) definitions set forth in the Indenture which are also defined herein by reference to the Indenture and (ii) sections of the Indenture that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus. If any such definitions in the Indenture or any such sections of the Indenture differ from the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus, the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus will govern for purposes of this Confirmation. The parties further acknowledge that the Indenture section numbers used herein are based on the draft of the Indenture last reviewed by Dealer as of the date of this Confirmation, and if any such section numbers are changed in the Indenture as executed, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties. For the avoidance of doubt, references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, herein are references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, as in effect on the date of its execution and if the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture is amended following its execution, any such amendment will be disregarded for purposes of this Confirmation unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Prospectus
Convertible Notes
Convertible Note
Trustee
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
          Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
 
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law (without reference to the choice of law doctrine)) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
2. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
Procedures for Exercise:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
JPMorgan Chase New York ABA: 021 000 021 Account:     Newell Rubbermaid Inc. A/C No.:     910-2-504074
Account for delivery of Shares to Counterparty:
To be provided by Counterparty.
Bank of America, N.A. New York, NY SWIFT: BOFAUS3N Bank Routing: 026 009 593 Account Name: Bank of America Account No. : 0012333 34172
Account for delivery of Shares from Dealer:
DTC 0773
6. Offices:
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: New York
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Three Glenlake Parkway Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Attention:              Treasurer Telephone No.:     (770) 418-7000 Facsimile No.:      (770) 677-8705
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036 Attention:              John Servidio Telephone No.:     (646) 855-7127 Facsimile No.:      (704) 208-2869
 
8. Representations and Warranties of Counterparty
The representations and warranties of Counterparty set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of March 24, 2009 among Counterparty and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Counterparty hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
(A) With respect to any Transfer Options, Counterparty shall not be released from its notice and indemnification obligations pursuant to Section 9(b) or any obligations under Section 9(n) or 9(s) of this Confirmation;
(B) Any Transfer Options shall only be transferred or assigned to a third party that is a United States person (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended);
(C) Such transfer or assignment shall be effected on terms, including any reasonable undertakings by such third party (including, but not limited to, an undertaking with respect to compliance with applicable securities laws in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of Dealer, will not expose Dealer to material risks under applicable securities laws) and execution of any documentation and delivery of legal opinions with respect to securities laws and other matters by such third party and Counterparty, as are requested and reasonably satisfactory to Dealer;
(D) Dealer will not, as a result of such transfer and assignment, be required to pay the transferee on any payment date an amount under Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement greater than an amount that Dealer would have been required to pay to Counterparty in the absence of such transfer and assignment;
(E) An Event of Default, Potential Event of Default or Termination Event will not occur as a result of such transfer and assignment;
(F) Without limiting the generality of clause (B), Counterparty shall cause the transferee to make such Payee Tax Representations and to provide such tax documentation as may be reasonably requested by Dealer to permit Dealer to determine that results described in clauses (D) and (E) will not occur upon or after such transfer and assignment; and
(G) Counterparty shall be responsible for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred by Dealer in connection with such transfer or assignment.
 
(ii) Dealer may, without Counterparty's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under the Transaction to any third party with a rating for its long term, unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness equal to or better than the greater of (x) the credit rating of Dealer at the time of the transfer and (y) A- by Standard and Poor's Rating Group, Inc. or its successor (""), or A3 by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. ("") or, if either S&P or Moody's ceases to rate such debt, at least an equivalent rating or better by a substitute rating agency mutually agreed by Counterparty and Dealer. If at any time at which (1) the Section 16 Percentage exceeds 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage exceeds 14.5%, or (3) the Share Amount exceeds the Post-Effective Limit (if any applies), Dealer is unable after using its commercially reasonable efforts to effect a transfer or assignment of Options to a third party on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer such that (1) the Section 16 Percentage will be equal to or less than 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage will be equal to or less than 14.5%, and (3) the Share Amount will be equal to or less than any such Post-Effective Limit, then Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of the Transaction (the ""), such that following such partial termination (1) the Section 16 Percentage will be equal to or less than 7.5%, (2) the Option Equity Percentage will be equal to or less than 14.5%, and (3) the Share Amount will be equal to or less than such Post-Effective Limit. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a Terminated Portion, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the number of Options underlying the Terminated Portion, (2) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) the Terminated Portion shall be the sole Affected Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 9(l) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this sentence as if Counterparty was not the Affected Party). The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the number of Shares that Dealer and each person subject to aggregation of Shares with Dealer under Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder directly or indirectly beneficially own (as defined under Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the product of (x) the Number of Options and (y) the Option Entitlement and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding. The "" as of any day is the number of Shares that Dealer and any person whose ownership position would be aggregated with that of Dealer (Dealer or any such person, a "") under any law, rule, regulation or regulatory order that for any reason becomes applicable to ownership of Shares after the Trade Date (""), owns, beneficially owns, constructively owns, controls, holds the power to vote or otherwise meets a relevant definition of ownership of under the Applicable Laws, as determined by Dealer in its reasonable discretion. The "" means (x) the minimum number of Shares that would give rise to reporting or registration obligations or other requirements (including obtaining prior approval from any person or entity) of a Dealer Person, or would result in an adverse effect on a Dealer Person, under the Applicable Laws, as determined by Dealer in its reasonable discretion, (y) 1% of the number of Shares outstanding.
S&P
Moody's
Terminated Portion
Section 16 Percentage
Option Equity Percentage
Share Amount
Dealer Person
Applicable Laws
Post-Effective Limit
minus
(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares or other securities, or make or receive any payment in cash, to or from Counterparty, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities, or to make or receive such payment in cash, and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer
 
shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
 
(ii) Section 12.9(b)(i) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) replacing "either party may elect" with "Dealer may elect" and (2) replacing "notice to the other party" with "notice to Counterparty" in the first sentence of such section.
 
Tender Offer Date, the Announcement Date (in the case of Nationalization, Insolvency or Delisting), the Early Termination Date or date of cancellation, as applicable; that if Counterparty does not validly request Dealer to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, Dealer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, notwithstanding Counterparty's election to the contrary. In calculating any amounts under Section 6(e) of the Agreement, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, (1) separate amounts shall be calculated as set forth in Section 6(e) with respect to (i) this Transaction and (ii) all other Transactions, and (2) such separate amounts shall be payable pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement.
provided
 
 
 
 
          Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by Dealer) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between Dealer and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to John Servidio, Bank of America, N.A., Facsimile No. .
(704) 208-2869
Very truly yours,
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Exhibit 10.5
EXECUTION VERSION
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
          March 24, 2009
Re: Warrants
          The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Warrants issued by Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") to Bank of America, N.A. ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Company
Dealer
Transaction
          The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""), are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. This Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Option Transaction within the meaning set forth in the Equity Definitions.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
          Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Company as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Company had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law (without reference to choice of law doctrine)) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
General Terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Offices:
The Office of Company for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Company is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: New York
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
8. Representations and Warranties of Company
The representations and warranties of Company set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of March 24, 2009 among Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Company hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
(i) Amendments to the Equity Definitions:
(A) Section 11.2(a) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the words "an"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(B) Section 11.2(c) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (x) replacing the words "a diluting or concentrative" with "an", (y) adding the phrase "or Warrants" after the words "the relevant Shares" in the same sentence and (z) deleting the phrase "(provided that no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)" and replacing it with the phrase "(and, for the avoidance of doubt, adjustments may be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)."
(C) Section 11.2(e)(vii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the word "a material"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(D) Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer."
(x) deleting (1) subsection (A) in its entirety, (2) the phrase "or (B)" following subsection (A) and (3) the phrase "in each case" in subsection (B); and
(y) deleting the phrase "neither the Non-Hedging Party nor the Lending Party lends Shares in the amount of the Hedging Shares or" in the penultimate sentence.
(x) adding the word "or" immediately before subsection "(B)" and deleting the comma at the end of subsection (A); and
(y) (1) deleting subsection (C) in its entirety, (2) deleting the word "or" immediately preceding subsection (C) and (3) deleting the penultimate sentence in its entirety and replacing it with the sentence "The Hedging Party will determine the Cancellation Amount payable by one party to the other."
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, upon the occurrence of one of the following events, with respect to this Transaction, (1) Dealer shall have the right to designate
 
such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement, and (2) Company shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction:
(A) Consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of Company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Shares will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of Company's subsidiaries; that a transaction where the holders of all classes of Company's common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such event shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any event set forth in this clause (A) shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event if 100% of the consideration received or to be received by holders of the Shares, excluding cash payments for fractional Shares, in connection with such event consists of shares of common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Global Select Market (or any of their respective successors) or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such event.
provided, however,
(B) (I) Company or any of its subsidiary defaults (as principal or as guarantor or other surety) in the payment of any principal of or premium or make-whole amount or interest on any debt that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least $50,000,000 beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto resulting in such debt becoming or being declared due and payable or (II) Company or any of its subsidiaries fails to perform or comply with any term of any evidence of any debt in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $50,000,000 or of any mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating thereto or any other condition exists, and as a consequence of such failure or condition such debt has become, or has been declared, due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment, or (III) as a consequence of the occurrence or continuation of any event or condition (other than the passage of time or the right of the holder of debt to convert such debt into cash or cash and equity interests), Company or any of its subsidiaries has become obligated to purchase or repay debt before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $50,000,000.
(C) A "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Company, its subsidiaries and its and their employee benefit plans, has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the common equity of Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of such common equity.
(D) Dealer, despite using commercially reasonable efforts, is unable or reasonably determines that it is impractical or illegal, to hedge its exposure with respect to this Transaction in the public market without registration under the Securities Act or as a result of any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures generally applicable to transactions of the same type as the Transaction (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Dealer).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Company hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by Dealer) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between Dealer and Company with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to John Servidio, Bank of America, N.A., Facsimile No. .
(704) 208-2869
Very truly yours,
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Exhibit 10.6
EXECUTION VERSION
Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
          March 24, 2009
Re: Call Option Confirmation and Warrant Confirmation
     Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") and Bank of America, N.A. ("") concurrently herewith are entering into a call option transaction (the "") to purchase from Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "") and a warrant transaction (the "", together with the Call Option Transaction, the "") to sell to Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "", together with the Call Option Confirmation, the "").
Company
Dealer
Call Option Transaction
Call Option Confirmation
Warrant Transaction
Transactions
Warrant Confirmation
Confirmations
     This letter agreement (the "") hereby confirms the agreement between Dealer and Company as follows:
Letter Agreement
     1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Call Option Confirmation or the Warrant Confirmation, as applicable.
Terms Used but Not Defined Herein
     2. . Company represents and warrants to Dealer that it is not entering into this Letter Agreement (i) on the basis of, and it is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to itself or the Shares (ii) in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities (other than the Convertible Notes), a self tender offer for equity securities or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
Representations and Warranties of Company
     3. . If the Underwriters (the "") party to the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of the date hereof among Company, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the Underwriters party thereto, exercise their option to purchase additional Convertible Notes (the ""), then on the closing date for the purchase and sale of the Additional Convertible Notes, (i) the Number of Options will be automatically increased by additional Options (the "") equal to the number of Additional Convertible Notes in denominations of USD 1,000 principal amount issued pursuant to such exercise; (ii) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Options and USD 200.00 shall be paid by Company to Dealer; (iii) the Number of Warrants will be automatically increased by additional Warrants (the "") in proportion to such Additional Convertible Notes; and (iv) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Warrants and USD 0.8176 shall be paid by Dealer to the Company.
Amendment
Underwriters
Underwriting Agreement
Additional Convertible Notes
Additional Options
Additional Warrants
     4. . In the event the sale of Convertible Notes is not consummated with the Underwriters for any reason by the close of business in New York on March 30, 2009 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties) (March 30, 2009 or such later date, the "") or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, on the Subsequent Closing Date as defined in the Underwriting Agreement (the
Early Unwind
Closing Date
 
"" and the Closing Date or the Subsequent Closing Date, as applicable, the ""), the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and Additional Warrants) shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and the Additional Warrants) and all of the respective rights and obligations of Dealer and Company under the Transactions, the Additional Options or Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) each party shall be released and discharged by the other party from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of the other party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date; that Company shall purchase from Dealer on the Early Unwind Date all Shares purchased by Dealer or one or more of its affiliates in connection with the Transactions, up to a maximum of 3,607,948 Shares, at the then prevailing market price as determined by the Calculation Agent. Dealer and Company represent and acknowledge to the other that, subject to the proviso included in this Section, upon an Early Unwind, all obligations with respect to the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
Subsequent Closing Date
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
provided
     5.  This Letter Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
.
Counterparts
     6. . The provisions of this Letter Agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine).
Governing Law
 
     Company hereby agrees (a) to check this Letter Agreement carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by Dealer) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between Dealer and Company, by manually signing this Letter Agreement or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and immediately returning an executed copy to John Servidio, Bank of America, N.A., Facsimile No. .
(704) 208-2869
Very truly yours,
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.


