FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20090217133045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On February 11, 2009, the Board of Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") amended the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP") previously adopted in February 2008. The following is a description of the amended LTIP. The LTIP provides a methodology for determining the amount of stock options and restricted stock units made to key employees in 2009 and subsequent years under the Company's 2003 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 8, 2006 and further amended August 9, 2006. The program is intended to provide eligible employees long-term incentive compensation with a target value based on a percentage of an employees base salary. Of this value, 20% is paid in an award of non-qualified stock options, 40% is paid in an award of time-based restricted stock units, and 40% is paid in an award of performance-based restricted stock units. The number of shares of common stock subject to stock options granted to each participant is determined by dividing 20% of the p articipants target value by the value of the stock option, as determined by applying the same Black-Scholes valuation methodology used for FAS 123(R) purposes. The stock options vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. The number of time-based restricted stock units granted to each participant is determined by dividing 40% of the participants target value by an amount equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. These restricted stock units generally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant. At the end of the vesting period, a participant will receive a share of common stock for each restricted stock unit that has vested. The number of performance-based restricted stock units granted to each participant is determined by dividing 40% of the participants target value by an amount equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. These restricted stock units also generally vest on the third anniversary o f the date of grant. The performance-based restricted stock unit grants are subject to a performance goal based on the Company's total shareholder return relative to the total shareholder return of companies in a comparator group over the three-year vesting period. At the end of the vesting period, the number of restricted stock units, and thus the number of shares of common stock actually issued to the participant, will be adjusted depending on the level of achievement of the total shareholder return performance goal, to a maximum of 200% of the initial number of performance-based restricted stock units granted and a minimum of 0% of the initial number of performance-based restricted stock units granted. Upon the payment of any dividend on the Companys common stock, the holder of an unvested time-based restricted stock unit will receive cash equal in value to such dividend, a dividend equivalent, at such time the dividend is paid to holders of common stock. However, the holder of a performan ce-based restricted stock unit will not receive dividend equivalents. Rather, all such dividend equivalents will be credited to an account for the holder, and will not be paid until such time as the applicable performance criteria are met and the performance-based restricted stock unit vests. A complete copy of the LTIP is filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by this reference. The Board also approved a form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for use pursuant to the LTIP which is filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan Exhibit 10.2 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 10.1
Under the terms and provisions of the Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 2003 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 8, 2006 and further amended as of August 9, 2006 (the "Stock Plan"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference, the Organizational Development & Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company"), at any time and from time to time, may grant awards based on shares of the Company's Common Stock, including Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options, to eligible employees in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. This Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") establishes a methodology for determining awards of Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options under the Stock Plan in 2009 and subsequent years to eligible employees with positions in Salary Bands 6-10 ("Key Employees"). The Committee will grant Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options to Key Employees pursuant to the guidelines set forth below.
1. 
Grants
.
The number of shares subject to Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options granted to a Key Employee in 2009 and in subsequent calendar years as an LTIP award will be determined as follows:
2. 
Guidelines
.
The grants described above will be made at the same time the Committee determines the criteria described in Section 2(a), and will be based on a Key Employee's Salary Band as of the December 31 of the prior year.
For this purpose, the beginning stock price will be the average closing stock price in the first month of the applicable performance period and the ending stock price will be the average closing stock price in the last month of the applicable performance period.
The Committee will determine the Company's ranking in the comparator group based on the TSR of the Company and of each other member of the TSR Comparator Group, and will multiply the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the TSR Comparator Group by the applicable percentage set forth below:
Rankings
Interpolation is used for Company ranking between the upper and lower comparator group ranking (for example, a Company ranking of 3 would result in an interpolated percentage between 200% and 150%, and a ranking of 8 would result in an interpolated percentage between 150% and 100%).
The resulting number is the adjusted number of Restricted Stock Units and thus the number of shares of Common Stock actually issuable pursuant to the Key Employee's Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit grant.
If a member is added or deleted from the TSR Comparator Group during the three-year performance period, such change will be made retroactively to the beginning of such performance period. If the number of members of the TSR Comparator Group changes, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the ranking levels and percentages set forth in the table above.
No Restricted Stock Units described in Section 2(b)(iii) will be awarded pursuant to this LTIP except on the basis of the attainment of the performance criteria set forth above and in the amount specified herein; provided that the Committee retains the discretion to reduce any amount of Restricted Stock Units or Stock Options awarded hereunder, to reduce the number of shares awarded pursuant to Restricted Stock Units or to terminate a Key Employee's participation in this LTIP. Except as set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, an individual who is not employed by the Company or any of its affiliates on the date the Committee determines performance goal achievement will not be eligible to receive the Common Stock issuable pursuant to Restricted Stock Units.
Except as otherwise specified by the Committee or as set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or Stock Option Agreement of a Key Employee, each Restricted Stock Unit grant and Stock Option grant will be subject to a three-year cliff vesting schedule ending on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
3. 
Vesting
.
. Key Employees residing in the United States who hold Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder will be credited with an amount equal to the regular cash dividends that would be paid with respect to the underlying shares had they been issued (assuming that each Restricted Stock Unit represents one share of Common Stock) while such Restricted Stock Units are so held; provided that (a) the dividend equivalents attributable to Time-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash to the Key Employees at the time the regular dividends are paid; and (b) in the case of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, the dividend equivalents (i) shall be accumulated and held until the end of the applicable vesting period, and (ii) except as otherwise set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, shall be subject to adjustment as described in Section 2(c). The Committee shall have the discretion to determine the time at which dividend equivalents described in this Section 4(b) are credited and the form in which they will be credited and paid. The Committee may apply any other restrictions to any dividend equivalents that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividend equivalents declared with respect to such Restricted Stock Units, such that the dividend equivalents and/or the Restricted Stock Units maintain eligibility for the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m). Key Employees who reside outside the United States will not be paid any dividends or dividend equivalents with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder. Dividends and dividend equivalents are not paid with respect to Stock Options.
4. 
Dividends and Other Distributions
Each Restricted Stock Unit and Stock Option grant awarded pursuant to this LTIP will be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or a Stock Option Agreement, as applicable, in accordance with Section 4.3 of the Stock Plan, which will specify the number of shares subject to the award, the vesting schedule, the payment provisions, including dividend payment provisions, if any, and such other provisions as the Committee determines including, without limitation, provisions regarding continued employment with the Company, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific Company-wide performance goals, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of performance goals, and/or restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws.
5. 
Restricted Stock Unit and Stock Option Agreements
.
. Although it is intended that this LTIP be used to determine awards of Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options under the Stock Plan for 2009 and future years, the Committee reserves the right to amend or terminate the LTIP at any time, retroactively or otherwise.
6. 
Amendment or Termination of LTIP
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms pursuant to the Stock Plan.
7. 
Capitalized Terms
.
CH2\1615919.11

EXHIBIT 10.2
A Restricted Stock Unit ("RSU") Award (the "Award") granted by Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the employee named in the attached Award letter (the "Grantee") relating to the common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and the provisions of the Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 2003 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective February 8, 2006 and further amended August 9, 2006 (the "Plan"), a copy of which is attached hereto and the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
1.
. The receipt of the Award is conditioned upon its acceptance by the Grantee in the space provided therefor at the end of the attached Award letter and the return of an executed copy of such Award letter to the Secretary of the Company no later than 60 days after the Award Date set forth therein or, if later, 30 days after the Grantee receives this Agreement.
Acceptance by Grantee
2.
. The Company hereby grants to the Grantee the Award of RSUs, as set forth in the Award letter. An RSU is the right, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, to receive a distribution of a share of Common Stock for each RSU as described in Section 7 of this Agreement.
Grant of RSUs
3.
. The Company shall maintain an account ("RSU Account") on its books in the name of the Grantee which shall reflect the number of RSUs awarded to the Grantee.
RSU Account
4.
.
Dividend Equivalents
(a)
Upon the payment of any dividend on Common Stock occurring during the period preceding the earlier of the date of vesting of the Grantee's Award or the date the Grantee's Award is forfeited as described with Section 5, the Company shall promptly pay to each Grantee an amount in cash equal in value to the dividends that the Grantee would have received had the Grantee been the actual owner of the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Time-Based RSUs in the Grantee's RSU Account on that date.
Time-Based RSUs.
(b)
. Upon the payment of any dividend on Common Stock occurring during the period preceding the earlier of the date of vesting of the Grantee's Award or the date the Grantee's Award is forfeited as described with Section 5, the Company shall credit the Grantee's RSU Account with an amount equal in value to the dividends that the Grantee would have received had the Grantee been the actual owner of the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Performance-Based RSUs in the Grantee's RSU Account on that date. Such amounts shall be paid to the Grantee in cash at the time and to the extent the related Performance-Based RSUs vest. The amount of dividend equivalents payable to the Grantee shall be adjusted to reflect the adjustment made to the related RSUs pursuant to Section 6 (which shall be determined by multiplying such amount by the percentage adjustment made to the related RSUs). Any such dividend equivalents relating to Performance-Based RSUs that are forfeited shall also be forfeited.
Performance-Based RSUs
5.
.
Vesting
(a)
Except as described in (b), (c) and (d) below, the Grantee shall become vested in his Award upon the third anniversary of the date of the grant of the Award (the "Award Date") if he remains in continuous employment with the Company or an affiliate until such date.
(b)
If the Grantee's employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates prior to the third anniversary of the Award Date due to death or disability, the Award shall become vested on such date. For this purpose "disability" means (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) the inability of the Grantee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or disability or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.
(c)
If the Grantee's employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates prior to the third anniversary of the Award Date due to retirement, the Award shall become vested on such date as provided in the table set forth below. The portion of the Award that does not vest as provided below shall be forfeited to the Company. For this purpose, "retirement" means the Grantee's termination without cause on or after the date on which the Grantee (i) has completed five years of credited service and (ii) either (A) has attained age 65 or (B) has attained age 55 and the sum of his age and credited service (his "points") equals or exceeds 60.
The term "credited service" means the Grantee's period of employment with the Company and all affiliates (including any predecessor company or business acquired by the Company or any affiliate, provided the Grantee was immediately employed by the Company or any affiliate). Age and credited service shall be determined in fully completed years and months, with each month being measured as a continuous period of 30 days. The term "cause" means the Grantee's termination of employment due to unsatisfactory performance or conduct detrimental to the Company or its affiliates, as determined solely by the Company. The term "affiliate" means each entity with whom the Company would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code, substituting "at least 50%" instead of "at least 80%" in making such determination. The term "Pro-Rated Award" means the portion of the Award determined by dividing the full number of months of employment with the Company and all affiliates during the Award's vesting period by 36 (carried out to three decimal points).
Any Grantee whose employment terminates due to retirement as described in this Section 5 must execute and deliver to the Company an agreement, in a form prescribed by the Company, and in accordance with procedures established by the Company, that he will not solicit employees, customers or suppliers of the Company and its affiliates, or compete with the Company and its affiliates, and that he releases all claims against the Company and its affiliates. If the Grantee fails to execute such agreement, or if the agreement is revoked by the Grantee, the Award shall be forfeited to the Company on the date of the Grantee's retirement.
(d)
If the Grantee's employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates prior to the third anniversary of the Award Date for any reason other than death, disability or retirement, the entire Award shall be forfeited to the Company, and no portion of the Award shall vest.
(e)
In the case of a Grantee who is also a Director, if the Grantee's employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates before the end of the Award's three-year vesting period, but the Grantee remains a Director, his service on the Board will be considered employment with the Company and his Award will continue to vest while his service on the Board continues. Any subsequent termination of service on the Board will be considered termination of employment and vesting will determined as of the date of such termination of employment.
The foregoing provisions of this Section 5 shall be subject to the provisions of any written employment security agreement or severance agreement that has been or may be executed by the Grantee and the Company, and the provisions in such employment security agreement or severance agreement concerning vesting of an Award shall supersede any inconsistent or contrary provision of this Section 5.
6.
. The number of RSUs subject to the Award that are Performance-Based RSUs as described in the Award letter shall be adjusted by the Committee after the end of the three-year performance period that begins on January 1 of the year in which the Award is granted, in accordance with in the Long-Term Incentive Plan established under the Plan (the "LTIP"). Any Performance-Based RSUs that vest in accordance with Section 5(b) or 5(c) prior to the date the Committee determines the level of performance goal achievement applicable to such RSUs shall not be adjusted pursuant to the LTIP. The particular performance criteria that applies to the Performance-Based RSUs are set forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement.
Adjustment of Performance-Based RSUs
7.
. If a Grantee becomes vested in his Award in accordance with Section 5, the Company shall distribute to him, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of vested RSUs subject to the Award, as adjusted in accordance with Section 6, if applicable. Such shares shall be delivered within 30 days following the date of vesting.
Settlement of Award
8.
. The Company shall withhold from any distribution made to the Grantee in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy all minimum Federal, state and local withholding tax requirements. In the case of a distribution made in shares of Common Stock, the Grantee shall pay to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy all minimum Federal, state and local withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any shares. Payment of such taxes may be made by one or more of the following methods: (i) in cash, (ii) in cash received from a broker-dealer to whom the Grantee has submitted irrevocable instructions to deliver the amount of withholding tax to the Company from the proceeds of the sale of shares subject to the Award, (iii) by directing the Company to withhold a number of shares otherwise issuable pursuant to the Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the tax required to be withheld, (iv) by delivery to the Company of other Common Stock owned by the Grantee that is acceptable to the Company, valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of payment, or (v) by certifying to ownership by attestation of such previously owned Common Stock.
Withholding Taxes
9.
. The Grantee shall not be entitled to any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Award, including the right to vote and to receive dividends and other distributions, until and to the extent the Award is settled in shares of Common Stock.
Rights as Stockholder
10.
. Delivery of any shares in connection with settlement of the Award will be by book-entry credit to an account in the Grantee's name established by the Company with the Company's transfer agent, or upon written request from the Grantee (or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as the case may be), in certificates in the name of the Grantee (or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate).
Share Delivery
11.
. The Award may not be transferred other than by will or the applicable laws of descent or distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. The Award shall not otherwise be assigned, transferred, or pledged for any purpose whatsoever and is not subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution or levy of any kind. Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, or encumbrance of the Award, other than in accordance with its terms, shall be void and of no effect.
Award Not Transferable
12.
. The Award shall be administered in accordance with such regulations as the Organizational Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") shall from time to time adopt.
Administration
13. . To the extent that the Grantee's right to receive payment of the RSUs and dividend equivalents constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the shares of Common Stock and cash otherwise deliverable under Sections 4 and 6 shall be subject to the following rules:
Section 409A Compliance
(a) The shares of Common Stock underlying the vested RSUs and the related dividend equivalents shall be delivered to the Grantee, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, within 30 days following the earlier of (i) the Grantee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, subject to Section 13(b); (ii) the occurrence of Change in Control that also constitutes a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; or (iii) the third anniversary of the Award Date.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 13(a), if the RSUs and related dividend equivalents become payable under Section 13(a)(i) as a result of Grantee's Retirement or Disability and the Grantee is a "specified employee," as determined under the Company's policy for determining specified employees on the date of such separation from service, then the shares of Common Stock underlying the vested RSUs and related dividend equivalents shall be delivered to the Grantee, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, within 30 days after the first business day that is more than six months after the date of his or her separation from service (or, if the Grantee dies during such six-month period, within 30 days after the Grantee's death).
(c) In the event that any taxes described in Section 8 of this Agreement are due prior to the distribution of shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs, then the Grantee shall be required to satisfy the tax obligation by using the method set forth in Section 8(i).
14. . The Grantee hereby consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee's personal data as described in this document by the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that the Company and its subsidiaries hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock or stock units awarded, canceled, purchased, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantee's favor for the purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee understands that the Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere and that the recipient country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data, as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any shares or other award acquired under the Plan. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting the local human resources representative in writing. The Grantee understands that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Grantee's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of refusing to consent or withdrawing consent, the Grantee understands that he may contact his or her local human resources representative.
Data Privacy Consent
15. . The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by the Grantee by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
Electronic Delivery
16. . This Agreement, and the Award, shall be construed, administered and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.
Dale L. Matschullat Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
CH2\2936522.3


