FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20100730075952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On July 30, 2010, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010. The Company's press release, dated July 30, 2010, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, excluding charges, as well as "Normalized" earnings are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring charges and one-time events such as tax benefits and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share and free cash flow is as performance goals that help determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
As previously reported, the Company has received an IRS Revenue Agent Report for tax years 2005 and 2006, assessing additional tax and interest relating to the Company's 2005 and 2006 U.S. federal income tax returns. The Company filed a protest against certain adjustments within the Revenue Agent Report and requested a conference with the IRS Appeals Office. The Company is in on-going settlement discussions with the Appeals Office that may resolve this dispute and finalize the examination of these returns. If resolved, the Company may reduce its unrecognized tax benefits balance and related accruals, the aggregate amount of which may be material, although a reasonable estimate of the range cannot be made. The Company does not expect to make additional material cash payments upon settlement of the examination. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to finalize the examination on the terms currently under discussion, or on any terms that would result in a reduction in the Company's unrecognized tax benefits balance and reversal of related accruals.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced second quarter 2010 financial results, including normalized earnings per share of $0.51, an 8.5 percent improvement over prior year results, and gross margin expansion of 220 basis points. The company also reported operating cash flow of $154.0 million, a 55.2 percent improvement over the prior year quarter.
ATLANTA, July 30, 2010
"I am very pleased with the performance of our business," said Mark Ketchum, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We delivered strong second quarter results across almost all metrics, including core sales growth of almost 4 percent, if adjusted for the customer orders shift from the second quarter to the first quarter in advance of an April SAP implementation. This growth was the result of a combination of market share gains and distribution wins as well as strong consumer demand in Latin American and developing markets in EMEA. We also generated significant improvement in gross margin this quarter driven by productivity gains and improved product mix. The solid progress we've made year to date despite a lackluster economy gives us increased confidence that our business model is working."
Net sales in the second quarter were $1.50 billion, down 0.5 percent compared with the prior year. Core sales improved 1.5 percent. Core sales growth was 3.8 percent if adjusted for a timing shift in customer buying patterns from the second quarter to the first quarter in advance of an April SAP implementation at the Rubbermaid Consumer and Rubbermaid Commercial Products business units. The year over year impact of last year's product line exits reduced net sales by 1.9 percent, and foreign currency translation had a nominal impact on sales.
Gross margin for the quarter was 39.3 percent, up 220 basis points from last year as productivity gains and improved product mix more than offset the impact of input cost inflation.
Operating income was $226.3 million, or 15.1 percent of sales, excluding $22.8 million of Project Acceleration restructuring costs and restructuring related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan. In 2009, operating income was $229.0 million, or 15.2 percent of sales, excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $29.5 million.
Normalized earnings were $0.51 per diluted share, compared to prior year results of $0.47 per diluted share, driven primarily by improved gross margin and a lower tax rate resulting from the resolution of a tax examination. For the second quarter 2010, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.06 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring related costs, net of tax, $0.05 per diluted share of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued
 
 
in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions, and a benefit of $0.01 per diluted share related to the impact of hyperinflationary accounting for the company's Venezuelan operations. For the second quarter 2009, normalized earnings per share exclude $0.08 per diluted share for Project Acceleration restructuring costs, net of tax, $0.01 per diluted share of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions, and one-time costs of $0.01 per diluted share incurred for the early retirement of $325 million principal amount of medium-term notes. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $130.4 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, for the second quarter. This compares to $105.7 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $154.0 million during the second quarter, compared to $99.2 million in the comparable period last year. The improvement was driven by increased earnings and working capital improvement. Capital expenditures were $37.8 million in the second quarter, compared to $38.3 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the second quarter 2010 and last year's results is as follows:
 
Six Months Results
Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2010 increased 3.5 percent to $2.80 billion, compared to $2.71 billion in the prior year. Core sales increased 4.1 percent for the six months. Foreign currency translation increased net sales by 1.0 percent, while the year over year impact of last year's product line exits lowered net sales by 1.6 percent.
Gross margin was 37.8 percent, a 160 basis point improvement versus the prior year. Productivity gains and improved product mix more than offset the effect of input cost inflation.
 
 
Normalized earnings, which exclude the same items as those in the second quarter 2010, were $0.77 per diluted share, compared to $0.67 per diluted share in the prior year. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $188.8 million, or $0.61 per diluted share. This compares to $139.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $183.4 million during the first six months of 2010, compared to $88.0 million in the prior year, driven by increased earnings and working capital improvement. Capital expenditures were $69.3 million, compared to $70.7 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the first six months 2010 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2010 Full Year Outlook
The company continues to expect 2010 net sales growth in the low to mid single digit range. However, the company is raising its expectations for core sales growth to mid single digits, as compared with low to mid single digits in its previous guidance. The impact of 2009 product exits is expected to be a negative one to two percent, and the impact from foreign currency is expected to be modestly negative.
The company still expects gross margin to improve 75 to 100 basis points with the combination of productivity, mix and pricing more than offsetting the impact of expected input cost inflation.
The company is raising its guidance for expected 2010 normalized earnings from its previously communicated range of $1.38 to $1.48 per diluted share to its new expectation of $1.40 to $1.50 per diluted share.
 
 
Operating cash flow is expected to exceed $500 million for the full year, including approximately $70 to $100 million in restructuring cash payments. The company expects capital expenditures of approximately $160 to $170 million.
A reconciliation of the 2010 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
 
Conference Call
The company's second quarter 2010 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, July 30, 2010, at 9:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2009 sales of approximately $5.6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts
TM
and Aprica.
 
 
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, www.newellrubbermaid.com.
Contacts:
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, the European Transformation Plan, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; our ability to refinance short-term debt on terms acceptable to us, particularly given the uncertainties in the global credit markets; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's latest quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended June 30, 2010
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2010
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 


