FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20100802132210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 2, 2010 Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Master Confirmation and a Supplemental Confirmation (collectively, the "ASB Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman Sachs") to effect an accelerated stock buyback of the Company's common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Common Stock"). Under the ASB Agreement, on August 10, 2010, the Company will pay Goldman Sachs an initial purchase price of $500.0 million, and Goldman Sachs will deliver to the Company 25,806,452 shares of Common Stock, representing approximately 80% of the shares expected to be purchased under the ASB Agreement. The Company intends to use a portion of the proceeds from the sale of a new series of senior notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes"), together with cash on hand and short-term borrowings, to fund the initial purchase price. The repurchase of stock under the ASB Agreement is subject to the closing of the offering of the 2020 Notes.
The number of shares that the Company ultimately purchases under the ASB Agreement will be determined based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average share prices of the Common Stock over the course of a calculation period and is subject to certain adjustments under the ASB Agreement (such average price, as so adjusted, the "Final Price"). Upon settlement following the end of the calculation period, Goldman Sachs will deliver additional shares to the Company so that the aggregate value of the shares initially delivered plus such additional shares, based on the Final Price, is $500.0 million. Alternatively, if the value of the shares initially delivered, based on the Final Price, exceeds $500.0 million, the Company will deliver cash or shares of Common Stock (at the Company's election) to Goldman Sachs for the excess. The Company intends to use any remaining proceeds from the sale of the 2020 Notes, together with cash on hand and short-term borrowings, to make any additional cash payment it may owe Goldman Sachs upon settlement.
The calculation period is scheduled to run from August 11, 2010 until March 7, 2011 and may be shortened at the option of Goldman Sachs to end as early as November 18, 2010. If the Company realizes its intention to conduct a proposed exchange offer for its 5.50% Convertible Notes due 2014, the calculation period will be suspended during and following the pendency of such exchange offer. If the Company does not conduct the proposed exchange offer, both the end of the calculation period and the date on which Goldman Sachs may first exercise its option to shorten the calculation period will be accelerated to reflect the absence of a suspension period. While the ASB Agreement is in effect, the Company will not be permitted to repurchase its common stock in the open market.
The ASB Agreement contains terms and conditions customary for agreements of this kind, including providing for adjustments in the event of extraordinary corporate transactions and setting forth circumstances under which the ASB Agreement may be terminated or unwound early.
The foregoing summary of the ASB Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the ASB Agreement, a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Goldman Sachs and its affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for the Company and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses. In particular, Goldman Sachs is serving as an underwriter in the offering of the 2020 Notes and as a dealer manager for the Company's tender offer for its 10.60% Notes due 2019.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 2, 2010 the Company announced a capital structure optimization plan. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. | 200 WEST STREET | NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10282-2198 | TEL: 212-902-1000
Opening Transaction
     This master confirmation (this ""), dated as of August 2, 2010 is intended to set forth certain terms and provisions of certain Transactions (each, a "") entered into from time to time between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (""). This Master Confirmation, taken alone, is neither a commitment by either party to enter into any Transaction nor evidence of a Transaction. The additional terms of any particular Transaction shall be set forth in (i) a Supplemental Confirmation in the form of Schedule A hereto (a ""), which shall reference this Master Confirmation and supplement, form a part of, and be subject to this Master Confirmation and (ii) a Trade Notification in the form of Schedule B hereto (a ""), which shall reference the relevant Supplemental Confirmation and supplement, form a part of, and be subject to such Supplemental Confirmation. This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and the related Trade Notification together shall constitute a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Master Confirmation
Transaction
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Supplemental Confirmation
Trade Notification
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Master Confirmation. This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and the related Trade Notification evidence a complete binding agreement between Counterparty and GS&Co. as to the subject matter and terms of each Transaction to which this Master Confirmation, such Supplemental Confirmation and Trade Notification relate and shall supersede all prior or contemporaneous written or oral communications with respect thereto.
Equity Definitions
     This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification supplement, form a part of, and are subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if GS&Co. and Counterparty had executed the Agreement on the date of this Master Confirmation (but without any Schedule except for (i) the election of New York law (without reference to its choice of laws doctrine other than Title 14 of Article 5 of the New York General Obligations Law) as the governing law and US Dollars ("") as the Termination Currency, (ii) the election that subparagraph (ii) of Section 2(c) will not apply to the Transactions, and (iii) the election that the "Cross Default" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) shall apply to both GS&Co., with respect to which a "Threshold Amount" of USD 200 million shall be applicable, and Counterparty, with respect to which a "Threshold Amount" of USD 50 million shall be applicable, provided that (a) the phrase "or becoming capable at such time of being declared" shall be deleted from clause (1) of such Section 5(a)(vi); and (b) the following language shall be added to the end thereof: "Notwithstanding the foregoing, a default under subsection (2) hereof shall not constitute an Event of Default if (i) the default was caused solely by error or omission of an administrative
Agreement
USD
 
or operational nature; (ii) funds were available to enable the party to make the payment when due; and (iii) the payment is made within two Local Business Days of such party's receipt of written notice of its failure to pay.").
     The Transactions shall be the sole Transactions under the Agreement. If there exists any ISDA Master Agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty or any confirmation or other agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty pursuant to which an ISDA Master Agreement is deemed to exist between GS&Co. and Counterparty, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such ISDA Master Agreement, such confirmation or agreement or any other agreement to which GS&Co. and Counterparty are parties, the Transactions shall not be considered Transactions under, or otherwise governed by, such existing or deemed ISDA Master Agreement.
     All provisions contained or incorporated by reference in the Agreement shall govern this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification except as expressly modified herein or in the related Supplemental Confirmation.
     If, in relation to any Transaction to which this Master Confirmation, a Supplemental Confirmation and a Trade Notification relate, there is any inconsistency between the Agreement, this Master Confirmation, any Supplemental Confirmation, any Trade Notification and the Equity Definitions, the following will prevail for purposes of such Transaction in the order of precedence indicated: (i) such Trade Notification; (ii) such Supplemental Confirmation; (iii) this Master Confirmation; (iv) the Agreement; and (v) the Equity Definitions.
     On the date hereof, Counterparty announced an offering of $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2020 (the ""). The effectiveness of each Transaction hereunder is subject to the condition that the offering of the Senior Notes has closed.
Senior Notes
     Subject to market conditions, Counterparty intends to make an offer (such offer, as it may from time to time be amended and supplemented, the "") to exchange Shares and cash for any and all of its outstanding $345,000,000 in aggregate principal amount 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the "") subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, as set forth in Schedule TO, as amended, to be filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for such Exchange Offer.
Exchange Offer
Convertible Notes
1. Each Transaction constitutes a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions. Set forth below are the terms and conditions that, together with the terms and conditions set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation and Trade Notification relating to any Transaction, shall govern such Transaction.
General Terms:
 
Valuation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. . GS&Co.; that, following the occurrence of an Event of Default under Section 5(a)(vii) of the Agreement, with respect to which GS&Co. is the Defaulting Party, Counterparty shall have the right to designate a nationally recognized third-party dealer in over-the-counter corporate equity derivatives to act, during the period commencing on the date such Event of Default occurred and ending on the Early Termination Date with respect to such Event of Default, as the Calculation Agent with respect to the Transactions under this Master Confirmation.
Calculation Agent
provided
3. . In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement, each party represents, warrants and covenants to the other party that:
Additional Mutual Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Each Party
     (a) . It is an "eligible contract participant", as defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (as amended), and is entering into each Transaction hereunder as principal (and not as agent or in any other capacity, fiduciary or otherwise) and not for the benefit of any third party.
Eligible Contract Participant
     (b) . Each party acknowledges that the offer and sale of each Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. Accordingly, each party represents and warrants to the other that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in each Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined under Regulation D under the Securities Act and (iii) the disposition of each Transaction is restricted under this Master Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
Accredited Investor
Securities Act
4. . In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement, Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that:
Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Counterparty
     (a) The purchase or writing of each Transaction and the transactions contemplated hereby will not violate Rule 13e-1 or Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act.
     (b) It is not entering into any Transaction (i) on the basis of, and is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to the Shares, (ii) to facilitate a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
     (c) Each Transaction is being entered into pursuant to a publicly disclosed Share buy-back program and its Board of Directors has approved the use of derivatives to effect the Share buy-back program.
 
     (d) Without limiting the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, it acknowledges that neither GS&Co. nor any of its affiliates is making any representations or warranties or taking any position or expressing any view with respect to the treatment of any Transaction under any accounting standards including ASC Topic 260, , ASC Topic 815, , ASC Topic 480, and ASC 815-40, .
Earnings Per Share
Derivatives and Hedging
Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity
Derivatives and Hedging  Contracts in Entity's Own Equity
     (e) As of (i) the date hereof, (ii) the Trade Date and the Effective Date for each Transaction hereunder and (iii) the date on which Counterparty publicly announces commencement of the Exchange Offer and any extension of the Exchange Offer, Counterparty is, and will be, in compliance with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with all reports subsequently filed by it pursuant to the Exchange Act, taken together and as amended and supplemented to the date of this representation, do not, as of their respective filing dates, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (f) Counterparty shall report each Transaction to the extent required under the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
     (g) The Shares are not, and Counterparty will not cause the Shares to be, subject to a "restricted period" (as defined in Regulation M promulgated under the Exchange Act), at any time during any Regulation M Period (as defined below) for any Transaction unless Counterparty has provided written notice to GS&Co. of such restricted period not later than the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the first day of such "restricted period"; Counterparty acknowledges that any such notice may cause a Disrupted Day to occur pursuant to Section 5 below; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such notice must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6 below. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge and agree that Counterparty's public announcement of the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 4(l) below shall constitute such a notice. "" means, for any Transaction, (i) the Relevant Period (as defined below) and (ii) the Settlement Valuation Period, if any, for such Transaction. "" means, for any Transaction, the period commencing on the Calculation Period Start Date for such Transaction and ending on the earlier of (i) the Scheduled Termination Date and (ii) the last Additional Relevant Day (as specified in the related Supplemental Confirmation) for such Transaction, or such earlier day as elected by GS&Co. and communicated to Counterparty on such day (or, if later, the First Acceleration Date without regard to any acceleration thereof pursuant to "Special Provisions for Acquisition Transaction Announcements" below), but excluding the Calculation Suspension Period.
Regulation M Period
Relevant Period
     (h) As of the Trade Date, the Prepayment Date, the Initial Share Delivery Date and the Settlement Date for each Transaction, Counterparty is not "insolvent" (as such term is defined under Section 101(32) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the "")) and Counterparty would be able to purchase a number of Shares with a value equal to the Prepayment Amount in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction of Counterparty's incorporation.
Bankruptcy Code
     (i) Counterparty is not and, after giving effect to any Transaction, will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     (j) Counterparty will not take any action or refrain from taking any action that would limit or in any way adversely affect GS&Co.'s rights under the Agreement, this Master Confirmation or any Supplemental Confirmation.
     (k) Counterparty has not and will not enter into agreements similar to the Transactions described herein where any initial hedge period, calculation period, relevant period or settlement valuation period (each however defined) in such other transaction will overlap at any time (including as a result of extensions in such initial hedge period, calculation period, relevant period or settlement valuation period as provided in the relevant agreements) with any Relevant Period or, if applicable, any Settlement Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation. In the event that the initial hedge period, relevant period, calculation period or settlement valuation period in any other similar transaction overlaps with any Relevant Period or, if applicable, Settlement Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation as a result of any postponement of the Scheduled Termination Date or extension of the Settlement Valuation Period pursuant to "Valuation Disruption" above or as a result of the
 
Calculation Suspension Period exceeding 30 Exchange Business Days, Counterparty shall promptly amend such transaction to avoid any such overlap.
     (l) If Counterparty makes the Exchange Offer, Counterparty shall publicly announce the commencement of the Exchange Offer after the close of trading on the Exchange on the Exchange Business Day immediately preceding the Exchange Offer Commencement Date and before the opening of trading on the Exchange on the Exchange Offer Commencement Date.
5. . In the event that GS&Co. concludes, upon advice of counsel, that it is appropriate with respect to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by GS&Co.), for it to refrain from or decrease any market activity on any Scheduled Trading Day or Days during the Calculation Period or, if applicable, the Settlement Valuation Period, GS&Co. may by written notice to Counterparty elect to deem that a Market Disruption Event has occurred and will be continuing on such Scheduled Trading Day or Days. For the avoidance of doubt, if Counterparty commences the Exchange Offer after September 30, 2010, GS&Co. may treat it as such a disruption.
Regulatory Disruption
6. . Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that:
10b5-1 Plan
     (a) Counterparty is entering into this Master Confirmation and each Transaction hereunder in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act ("") or any other antifraud or anti-manipulation provisions of the federal or applicable state securities laws and that it has not entered into or altered and will not enter into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Shares. Counterparty acknowledges that it is the intent of the parties that each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of Rule 10b5-1 and each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c).
Rule 10b5-1
     (b) Counterparty will not seek to control or influence GS&Co.'s decision to make any "purchases or sales" (within the meaning of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B)(3)) under any Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation, including, without limitation, GS&Co.'s decision to enter into any hedging transactions. Counterparty represents and warrants that it has consulted with its own advisors as to the legal aspects of its adoption and implementation of this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification under Rule 10b5-1.
     (c) Counterparty acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification, waiver or termination of this Master Confirmation, the relevant Supplemental Confirmation or Trade Notification, including, without limitation, any public announcement of the commencement of the Exchange Offer and any extension of the Exchange Offer, must be effected in accordance with the requirements for the amendment or termination of a "plan" as defined in Rule 10b5-1(c). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5, and no such amendment, modification or waiver shall be made at any time at which Counterparty or any officer, director, manager or similar person of Counterparty is aware of any material non-public information regarding Counterparty or the Shares.
7. (a) . Counterparty (or any "affiliated purchaser" as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act ("")) shall not, without the prior written consent of GS&Co., directly or indirectly purchase any Shares (including by means of a derivative instrument), listed contracts on the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares (including, without limitation, any Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks (as defined in Rule 10b-18)) during any Relevant Period or, if applicable, Settlement Valuation Period, except through GS&Co. and other than terminations of the outstanding warrants issued on March 24, 2009 to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A.
Counterparty Purchases
Rule 10b-18
     (b) . GS&Co. covenants and agrees that during the Calculation Suspension Period it shall not effect any purchases of Shares in connection with the Transaction, other than purchases in
GS&Co. Undertaking
 
connection with dynamic adjustments to its hedge position in respect of the market risk associated with the optionality embedded in the Transaction.
8. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Equity Definitions:
Special Provisions for Merger Transactions
     (a) Counterparty agrees that it:
     (i) will not during the period commencing on the Trade Date through the end of the Relevant Period or, if applicable, the Settlement Valuation Period for any Transaction make, or, to the extent within its reasonable control, permit to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any Merger Transaction or potential Merger Transaction unless such public announcement is made prior to the opening or after the close of the regular trading session on the Exchange for the Shares;
     (ii) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) notify GS&Co. following any such announcement that such announcement has been made; and
     (iii) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) provide GS&Co. with written notice specifying (i) Counterparty's average daily Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately preceding the announcement date that were not effected through GS&Co. or its affiliates and (ii) the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act for the three full calendar months preceding the announcement date. Such written notice shall be deemed to be a certification by Counterparty to GS&Co. that such information is true and correct. In addition, Counterparty shall promptly notify GS&Co. of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. Counterparty acknowledges that any such notice may cause the terms of any Transaction to be adjusted or such Transaction to be terminated; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such notice must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6 above.
     (b) In the event of the public announcement of any Merger Transaction or potential Merger Transaction involving Counterparty, GS&Co. in its sole discretion may (i) make good faith and commercially reasonable adjustments to the terms of any Transaction, including, without limitation, the Scheduled Termination Date or the Forward Price Adjustment Amount, and/or suspend the Calculation Period and/or any Settlement Valuation Period or (ii) treat the occurrence of such public announcement as an Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and the Transactions hereunder as the Affected Transactions and with the amount under Section 6(e) of the Agreement determined taking into account the fact that the Calculation Period or Settlement Valuation Period, as the case may be, had fewer Scheduled Trading Days than originally anticipated.
     "" means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a recapitalization as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv) under the Exchange Act.
Merger Transaction
9. . (a) If an Acquisition Transaction Announcement occurs on or prior to the Settlement Date for any Transaction, then the Number of Shares to be Delivered for such Transaction shall be determined as if clause (x)(b) of the definition thereof were replaced with "(b) the Forward Price." If an Acquisition Transaction Announcement occurs after the Trade Date, but prior to the First Acceleration Date of any Transaction, the First Acceleration Date shall be the date of such Acquisition Transaction Announcement, unless such Acquisition Transaction Announcement occurs during the Calculation Suspension Period, in which case the First Acceleration Date shall be the later of (i) the date of such Acquisition Transaction Announcement or (ii) the Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the Calculation Suspension Period End Date.
Special Provisions for Acquisition Transaction Announcements
 
     (b) "" means (i) the announcement of an Acquisition Transaction, (ii) an announcement that Counterparty or any of its subsidiaries has entered into an agreement, a letter of intent or an understanding designed to result in an Acquisition Transaction, (iii) the announcement of the intention to solicit or enter into, or to explore strategic alternatives or other similar undertaking that may include, an Acquisition Transaction, or (iv) any other announcement that in the reasonable judgment of the Calculation Agent is reasonably likely to result in an Acquisition Transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, announcements as used in the definition of Acquisition Transaction Announcement refer to any public announcement whether made by Counterparty or a third party.
Acquisition Transaction Announcement
     (c) "" means (i) any Merger Event (for purposes of this definition the definition of Merger Event shall be read with the references therein to "100%" being replaced by "25%" and to "50%" by "75%" and without reference to the clause beginning immediately following the definition of Reverse Merger therein to the end of such definition), Tender Offer or Merger Transaction or any other transaction involving the merger of Counterparty with or into any third party, (ii) the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of Counterparty, (iii) a recapitalization, reclassification, binding share exchange or other similar transaction, (iv) any acquisition or other similar event by Counterparty or any of its subsidiaries where the aggregate consideration transferable or receivable by or to Counterparty or its subsidiaries exceeds 30% of the market capitalization of Counterparty, (v) any lease, exchange, transfer, disposition (including by way of spin-off or distribution) of assets (including any capital stock or other ownership interests in subsidiaries) or other similar event by Counterparty or any of its subsidiaries where the aggregate consideration transferable or receivable by or to Counterparty or its subsidiaries exceeds 25% of the market capitalization of Counterparty and (vi) any transaction in which Counterparty or its board of directors has a legal obligation to make a recommendation to its shareholders in respect of such transaction (whether pursuant to Rule 14e-2 under the Exchange Act or otherwise).
Acquisition Transaction
10. . (a) The parties hereto intend for:
Acknowledgments
     (i) each Transaction to be a "securities contract" as defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, a "swap agreement" as defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code and a "forward contract" as defined in Section 101(25) of the Bankruptcy Code, and the parties hereto to be entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(b)(27), 362(o), 546(e), 546(g), 546(j), 555, 556, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code;
     (ii) the Agreement to be a "master netting agreement" as defined in Section 101(38A) of the Bankruptcy Code;
     (iii) a party's right to liquidate, terminate or accelerate any Transaction, net out or offset termination values or payment amounts, and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default or Termination Event under the Agreement with respect to the other party or any Extraordinary Event that results in the termination or cancellation of any Transaction to constitute a "contractual right" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code); and
     (iv) all payments for, under or in connection with each Transaction, all payments for the Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, payment of the Prepayment Amount) and the transfer of such Shares to constitute "settlement payments" and "transfers" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code).
     (b) Counterparty acknowledges that:
          (i) during the term of any Transaction, GS&Co. and its affiliates may buy or sell Shares or other securities or buy or sell options or futures contracts or enter into swaps or other derivative securities in order to establish, adjust or unwind its hedge position with respect to such Transaction;
          (ii) GS&Co. and its affiliates may also be active in the market for the Shares other than in connection with hedging activities in relation to any Transaction;
 
          (iii) GS&Co. shall make its own determination as to whether, when or in what manner any hedging or market activities in Counterparty's securities shall be conducted and shall do so in a manner that it deems appropriate to hedge its price and market risk with respect to the Forward Price and the VWAP Price;
          (iv) any market activities of GS&Co. and its affiliates with respect to the Shares may affect the market price and volatility of the Shares, as well as the Forward Price and VWAP Price, each in a manner that may be adverse to Counterparty; and
          (v) each Transaction is a derivatives transaction in which it has granted GS&Co. an option; GS&Co. may purchase shares for its own account at an average price that may be greater than, or less than, the price paid by Counterparty under the terms of the related Transaction.
11. . The parties hereto acknowledge that no Transaction hereunder is secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Counterparty herein or pursuant to the Agreement.
Credit Support Documents
12. . (a) The parties agree to amend Section 6 of the Agreement by adding a new Section 6(f) thereto as follows:
Set-off
"(f) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default or Termination Event with respect to a party who is the Defaulting Party or the Affected Party ("X"), the other party ("Y") will have the right (but not be obliged) without prior notice to X or any other person to set-off or apply any obligation of X owed to Y (or any Affiliate of Y) (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under the Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation) against any obligation of Y (or any Affiliate of Y) owed to X (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under the Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation). Y will give notice to the other party of any set-off effected under this Section 6(f).
Amounts (or the relevant portion of such amounts) subject to set-off may be converted by Y into the Termination Currency at the rate of exchange at which such party would be able, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith, to purchase the relevant amount of such currency. If any obligation is unascertained, Y may in good faith estimate that obligation and set-off in respect of the estimate, subject to the relevant party accounting to the other when the obligation is ascertained. Nothing in this Section 6(f) shall be effective to create a charge or other security interest. This Section 6(f) shall be without prejudice and in addition to any right of set-off, combination of accounts, lien or other right to which any party is at any time otherwise entitled (whether by operation of law, contract or otherwise)."
     (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, GS&Co. agrees not to set off or net amounts due from Counterparty with respect to any Transaction against amounts due from GS&Co. to Counterparty with respect to contracts or instruments that are not Equity Contracts. "" means any transaction or instrument that does not convey to GS&Co. rights, or the ability to assert claims, that are senior to the rights and claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy.
Equity Contract
13. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, GS&Co. may, by prior notice to Counterparty, satisfy its obligation to deliver any Shares or other securities on any date due (an "") by making separate deliveries of Shares or such securities, as the case may be, at more than one time on or prior to such Original Delivery Date, so long as the aggregate number of Shares and other securities so delivered on or prior to such Original Delivery Date is equal to the number required to be delivered on such Original Delivery Date.
Delivery of Shares
Original Delivery Date
 
14. . In the event that an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or a Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to any Transaction (except as a result of a Merger Event in which the consideration or proceeds to be paid to holders of Shares consists solely of cash), if either party would owe any amount to the other party pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (any such amount, a ""), then, in lieu of any payment of such Payment Amount, Counterparty may, no later than the Early Termination Date or the date on which such Transaction is terminated, elect to deliver or for GS&Co. to deliver, as the case may be, to the other party a number of Shares (or, in the case of a Merger Event, a number of units, each comprising the number or amount of the securities or property that a hypothetical holder of one Share would receive in such Merger Event (each such unit, an "" and, the securities or property comprising such unit, "")) with a value equal to the Payment Amount, as determined by the Calculation Agent (and the parties agree that, in making such determination of value, the Calculation Agent may take into account a number of factors, including the market price of the Shares or Alternative Delivery Property on the date of early termination and, if such delivery is made by GS&Co., the prices at which GS&Co. purchases Shares or Alternative Delivery Property to fulfill its delivery obligations under this Section 14); that, the Payment Amount owed by either party, as determined by the Calculation Agent, shall not include any amounts for Extraordinary Dividends; , that, in determining the composition of any Alternative Delivery Unit, if the relevant Merger Event involves a choice of consideration to be received by holders, such holder shall be deemed to have elected to receive the maximum possible amount of cash. If such delivery is made by Counterparty, paragraphs 2 through 7 of Annex A shall apply as if such delivery were a settlement of the Transaction to which Net Share Settlement applied, the Cash Settlement Payment Date were the Early Termination Date and the Forward Cash Settlement Amount were zero (0) the Payment Amount owed by Counterparty.
Early Termination
Payment Amount
Alternative Delivery Unit
Alternative Delivery Property
provided
provided
further
minus
15. . The parties acknowledge and agree that in calculating the Close-out Amount pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement or the Cancellation Amount pursuant to Section 12 of the Equity Definitions GS&Co. may (but need not) determine losses without reference to actual losses incurred but based on expected losses assuming a commercially reasonable (including without limitation with regard to reasonable legal and regulatory guidelines) risk bid were used to determine loss to avoid awaiting the delay associated with closing out any hedge or related trading position in a commercially reasonable manner prior to or sooner following the designation of an Early Termination Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement, all amounts calculated as being due in respect of an Early Termination Date under Section 6(e) of the Agreement will be payable on the day that notice of the amount payable is effective; that if Counterparty elects to receive Shares or Alternative Delivery Property in accordance with Section 14, such Shares or Alternative Delivery Property shall be delivered on a date selected by GS&Co as promptly as practicable.
Calculations and Payment Date upon Early Termination
provided
16. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6 of the Agreement, if a Termination Price is specified in any Supplemental Confirmation, then an Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and the Transaction to which such Supplemental Confirmation relates as the Affected Transaction will automatically occur without any notice or action by GS&Co. or Counterparty if the price of the Shares on the Exchange at any time falls below such Termination Price, and the Exchange Business Day that the price of the Shares on the Exchange at any time falls below the Termination Price will be the "Early Termination Date" for purposes of the Agreement.
Automatic Termination Provisions
17. . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted as requiring Counterparty to deliver cash in respect of the settlement of the Transactions contemplated by this Master Confirmation following payment by Counterparty of the relevant Prepayment Amount, except in circumstances where the required cash settlement thereof is permitted for classification of the contract as equity by ASC 815-40, , as in effect on the relevant Trade Date (including, without limitation, where Counterparty so elects to deliver cash or fails timely to elect to deliver Shares or Alternative Delivery Property in respect of the settlement of such Transactions).
Delivery of Cash
Derivatives and Hedging  Contracts in Entity's Own Equity
18. . GS&Co. acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy.
Claim in Bankruptcy
19. . With respect to each Transaction, (i) this Master Confirmation, together with the related Supplemental Confirmation, as supplemented by the related Trade Notification, is a
General Obligations Law of New York
 
"qualified financial contract", as such term is defined in Section 5-701(b)(2) of the General Obligations Law of New York (the ""); (ii) such Trade Notification constitutes a "confirmation in writing sufficient to indicate that a contract has been made between the parties" hereto, as set forth in Section 5-701(b)(3)(b) of the General Obligations Law; and (iii) this Master Confirmation, together with the related Supplemental Confirmation, constitutes a prior "written contract" as set forth in Section 5-701(b)(1)(b) of the General Obligations Law, and each party hereto intends and agrees to be bound by this Master Confirmation and the related Supplemental Confirmation, as supplemented by the Trade Notification.
General Obligations Law
20. . The Agreement, this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation, each Trade Notification and all matters arising in connection with the Agreement, this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York (without reference to its choice of laws doctrine other than Title 14 of Article 5 of the New York General Obligations Law).
Governing Law
21. .
Offices
     (a) The Office of GS&Co. for each Transaction is: 200 West Street, New York, New York 10282-2198.
     (b) The Office of Counterparty for each Transaction is: Three Glenlake Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia 30328.
22.
Arbitration
. The Agreement, this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification are subject to the following arbitration provisions:
     
(a) All parties to this Master Confirmation are giving up the right to sue each other in court, including the right to a trial by jury, except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in which a claim is filed.
     
(b) Arbitration awards are generally final and binding; a party's ability to have a court reverse or modify an arbitration award is very limited.
     
(c) The ability of the parties to obtain documents, witness statements and other discovery is generally more limited in arbitration than in court proceedings.
     
(d) The arbitrators do not have to explain the reason(s) for their award.
     
(e) The panel of arbitrators will typically include a minority of arbitrators who were or are affiliated with the securities industry, unless Counterparty is a member of the organization sponsoring the arbitration facility, in which case all arbitrators may be affiliated with the securities industry.
     
(f) The rules of some arbitration forums may impose time limits for bringing a claim in arbitration. In some cases, a claim that is ineligible for arbitration may be brought in court.
     
(g) The rules of the arbitration forum in which the claim is filed, and any amendments thereto, shall be incorporated into this Master Confirmation.
     
Counterparty agrees that any and all controversies that may arise between Counterparty and GS&Co., including, but not limited to, those arising out of or relating to the Agreement or any Transaction hereunder, shall be determined by arbitration conducted before the FINRA Dispute Resolution ("FINRA-DR"), or, if the FINRA-DR declines to hear the matter, before the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with their arbitration rules then in force. The award of the arbitrator shall be final, and judgment upon the award rendered may be entered in any court, state or federal, having jurisdiction.
 
     
No person shall bring a putative or certified class action to arbitration, nor seek to enforce any pre-dispute arbitration agreement against any person who has initiated in court a putative class action or who is a member of a putative class who has not opted out of the class with respect to any claims encompassed by the putative class action until: (i) the class certification is denied; (ii) the class is decertified; or (iii) Counterparty is excluded from the class by the court.
     
Such forbearance to enforce an agreement to arbitrate shall not constitute a waiver of any rights under this Master Confirmation except to the extent stated herein.
23. . This Master Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Master Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.
Counterparts
 
     Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Master Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to any particular Transaction to which this Master Confirmation relates, by manually signing this Master Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, Facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.
 
 
          The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") (together, the "") on the Trade Date specified below. This Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS&Co. and Counterparty as of the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Contracting Parties
1. This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of August 2, 2010 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
Master Confirmation
2. The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
3. Counterparty represents and warrants to GS&Co. that neither it nor any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) has made, nor will make, any purchases of blocks pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during either (i) the four full calendar weeks immediately preceding the Effective Date or (ii) during the calendar week in which the Effective Date occurs.
4. This Supplemental Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Supplemental Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.
 
     Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates, by manually signing this Supplemental Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.
 
     The purpose of this Trade Notification is to notify you of certain terms in the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("") (together, the "") on the Trade Date specified below.
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Contracting Parties
     This Trade Notification supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Supplemental Confirmation dated as of August 2, 2010 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. The Supplemental Confirmation is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of August 2, 2010 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
Supplemental Confirmation
Master Confirmation
 
          1. The following Counterparty Settlement Provisions shall apply to the extent indicated under the Master Confirmation:
 
          2. Net Share Settlement shall be made by delivery on the Cash Settlement Payment Date of a number of Shares satisfying the conditions set forth in paragraph 3 below (the ""), or a number of Shares not satisfying such conditions (the ""), in either case with a value equal to the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, with such Shares' value based on the value thereof to GS&Co. (which value shall, in the case of Unregistered Settlement Shares, take into account a commercially reasonable illiquidity discount), in each case as determined by the Calculation Agent.
Registered Settlement Shares
Unregistered Settlement Shares
          3. Counterparty may only deliver Registered Settlement Shares pursuant to paragraph 2 above if:
          (a) a registration statement covering public resale of the Registered Settlement Shares by GS&Co. (the "") shall have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act and been declared or otherwise become effective on or prior to the date of delivery, and no stop order shall be in effect with respect to the Registration Statement; and a printed prospectus relating to the Registered Settlement Shares (including any prospectus supplement thereto, the "") shall have been delivered to GS&Co., in such quantities as GS&Co. shall reasonably have requested, on or prior to the date of delivery;
Registration Statement
Prospectus
          (b) the form and content of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including, without limitation, any sections describing the plan of distribution) shall be reasonably satisfactory to GS&Co.;
          (c) as of or prior to the date of delivery, GS&Co. and its agents shall have been afforded a reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten offerings of equity securities and the results of such investigation are satisfactory to GS&Co., in its discretion; and
          (d) as of the date of delivery, an agreement (the "") shall have been entered into with GS&Co. in connection with the public resale of the Registered Settlement Shares by GS&Co. substantially similar to underwriting agreements customary for underwritten offerings of equity securities, in form and substance satisfactory to GS&Co., which Underwriting Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such underwriting agreements relating, without limitation, to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, GS&Co. and its affiliates and the provision of customary opinions, accountants' comfort letters and lawyers' negative assurance letters.
Underwriting Agreement
          4. If Counterparty delivers Unregistered Settlement Shares pursuant to paragraph 2 above:
          (a) all Unregistered Settlement Shares shall be delivered to GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) pursuant to the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by Section 4(2) thereof;
          (b) as of or prior to the date of delivery, GS&Co. and any potential purchaser of any such shares from GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) identified by GS&Co. shall be afforded a commercially reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for private placements of equity securities (including, without limitation, the right to have made available to them for inspection all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and other information reasonably requested by them);
 
          (c) as of the date of delivery, Counterparty shall enter into an agreement (a "") with GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) in connection with the private placement of such shares by Counterparty to GS&Co. (or any such affiliate) and the private resale of such shares by GS&Co. (or any such affiliate), substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity offerings of similar size, in form and substance commercially reasonably satisfactory to GS&Co., which Private Placement Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such private placement purchase agreements relating, without limitation, to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, GS&Co. and its affiliates and the provision of customary opinions, accountants' comfort letters and lawyers' negative assurance letters, and shall provide for the payment by Counterparty of all fees and expenses in connection with such resale, including all fees and expenses of counsel for GS&Co., and shall contain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of Counterparty reasonably necessary or advisable to establish and maintain the availability of an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for such resales; and
Private Placement Agreement
          (d) in connection with the private placement of such shares by Counterparty to GS&Co. (or any such affiliate) and the private resale of such shares by GS&Co. (or any such affiliate), Counterparty shall, if so requested by GS&Co., prepare, in cooperation with GS&Co., a private placement memorandum in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to GS&Co.
          5. GS&Co., itself or through an affiliate (the "") or any underwriter(s), will sell all, or such lesser portion as may be required hereunder, of the Registered Settlement Shares or Unregistered Settlement Shares and any Makewhole Shares (as defined below) (together, the "") delivered by Counterparty to GS&Co. pursuant to paragraph 6 below commencing on the Cash Settlement Payment Date and continuing until the date on which the aggregate Net Proceeds (as such term is defined below) of such sales, as determined by GS&Co., is equal to the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount (such date, the ""). If the proceeds of any sale(s) made by GS&Co., the Selling Agent or any underwriter(s), net of any fees and commissions (including, without limitation, underwriting or placement fees) customary for similar transactions under the circumstances at the time of the offering, together with carrying charges and expenses incurred in connection with the offer and sale of the Shares (including, but without limitation to, the covering of any over-allotment or short position (syndicate or otherwise)) (the "") exceed the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, GS&Co. will refund, in USD, such excess to Counterparty on the date that is three (3) Currency Business Days following the Final Resale Date, and, if any portion of the Settlement Shares remains unsold, GS&Co. shall return to Counterparty on that date such unsold Shares.
Selling Agent
Settlement Shares
Final Resale Date
Net Proceeds
          6. If the Calculation Agent determines that the Net Proceeds received from the sale of the Registered Settlement Shares or Unregistered Settlement Shares or any Makewhole Shares, if any, pursuant to this paragraph 6 are less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount (the amount in USD by which the Net Proceeds are less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount being the "" and the date on which such determination is made, the ""), Counterparty shall on the Exchange Business Day next succeeding the Deficiency Determination Date (the "") deliver to GS&Co., through the Selling Agent, a notice of Counterparty's election that Counterparty shall either (i) pay an amount in cash equal to the Shortfall on the day that is one (1) Currency Business Day after the Makewhole Notice Date, or (ii) deliver additional Shares. If Counterparty elects to deliver to GS&Co. additional Shares, then Counterparty shall deliver additional Shares in compliance with the terms and conditions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 above, as the case may be (the ""), on the first Clearance System Business Day which is also an Exchange Business Day following the Makewhole Notice Date in such number as the Calculation Agent reasonably believes would have a market value on that Exchange Business Day equal to the Shortfall. Such Makewhole Shares shall be sold by GS&Co. in accordance with the provisions above; that if the sum of the Net Proceeds from the sale of the originally delivered Shares and the Net Proceeds from the sale of any Makewhole Shares is less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount then Counterparty shall, at its election, either make such cash payment or deliver to GS&Co. further Makewhole Shares until such Shortfall has been reduced to zero.
Shortfall
Deficiency Determination Date
Makewhole Notice Date
Makewhole Shares
provided
          7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the aggregate number of Settlement Shares and Makewhole Shares be greater than the Reserved Shares the amount of any Shares actually
minus
 
delivered by Counterparty under any other Transaction(s) under this Master Confirmation (the result of such calculation, the ""). Counterparty represents and warrants (which shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that a Transaction is outstanding) that the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of Shares determined according to the following formula:
Capped Number
          "" means initially, 70,000,000 Shares. The Reserved Shares may be increased or decreased in a Supplemental Confirmation.
Reserved Shares

Exhibit 10.2
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced a series of transactions designed to simplify its capital structure and reduce interest expense. The capital structure optimization plan includes the following components:
ATLANTA, August 2, 2010
The ASB and cash tender offer will be funded by a combination of existing cash on hand, short-term borrowings and proceeds from the sale of the new senior notes.
In addition, Newell Rubbermaid intends, subject to market conditions, to launch later this quarter an offer to exchange common stock and cash for any and all of its 5.50% convertible senior notes due 2014. To the extent these notes are exchanged, the company intends to settle, for cash, the hedge transactions which were entered into concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes.
Assuming 32.3 million shares are purchased in the ASB, all the notes due 2019 are tendered in the tender offer and all the convertible notes are tendered in the exchange offer, the net result of the transactions making up the capital structure optimization plan will be the refinancing of approximately $600 million in long term debt at lower interest rates, a net increase of approximately 8 million shares of outstanding common stock, and the elimination of potential future share count dilution resulting from the convertible notes and hedge transactions.
If completed as planned, the series of transactions is not expected to have a material impact on either the company's leverage ratio or the company's recently announced improved guidance for 2010 normalized earnings. However, it is expected to result in a cumulative pre-tax charge to GAAP earnings in 2010 of up to $200 million. The capital structure optimization plan is expected to be accretive to future periods' GAAP and normalized earnings per share.
"The series of transactions we announced today will simplify our capital structure, lower our interest costs and reduce potential future dilution from the convertible notes. The convertible note financing played an important role helping us refinance our debt in the middle of last year's credit crisis, but we believe it is an appropriate time to revisit it and our overall capital structure. This has been one of our top priorities for 2010," said Mark Ketchum, President and Chief Executive Officer of Newell Rubbermaid. "If you are as confident about Newell Rubbermaid's future prospects and the potential for long term appreciation in the value of NWL stock as we are, then this initiative is clearly a positive. We expect the transactions to be accretive to EPS in future
 
periods and to eliminate confusion and uncertainty regarding potential future dilution from the convertible notes, allowing investors to focus on our business and on our long term strategy for creating shareholder value through Brands That Matter."
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or buy any securities nor shall there be any sale of such securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state. The offering of the new senior notes is being made only by means of a prospectus and related prospectus supplement included as part of an effective shelf registration statement previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of the prospectus and related prospectus supplement may be obtained from Newell Rubbermaid at 3 Glenlake Parkway, Atlanta, GA 30328. The cash tender offer for the outstanding notes due 2019 is being made only by means of an offer to purchase and related letter of transmittal. The proposed exchange offer, if commenced, will be made only by means of an offer to purchase and a related letter of transmittal, and the securities offered therein will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from applicable registration requirements. Newell Rubbermaid does not make any recommendations as to whether holders should tender their securities in the cash tender offer or the proposed exchange offer.
All statements in this press release that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of Newell Rubbermaid's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this release because of a variety of factors, including conditions to, or changes in the timing of, proposed transactions in the company's capital structure optimization plan, whether the proposed exchange offer is commenced, levels of noteholder participation in the cash tender offer and the proposed exchange offer, changes in the securities markets' conditions, particularly the markets for debt securities and the market for Newell Rubbermaid's common stock and other factors identified in documents filed by Newell Rubbermaid with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2009 sales of approximately $5.6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts and Aprica.
TM
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site,
www.newellrubbermaid.com.


