FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20100211144610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On February 11, 2010, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") announced that William D. Marohn will retire as a director effective at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2010 pursuant to the mandatory retirement provision in the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines. A copy of the news release announcing Mr. Marohns retirement and Michael T. Cowhigs election as Chairman of the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced that Michael T. Cowhig has been elected chairman of the company's board of directors, succeeding William D. Marohn, who served as chairman since 2004. Marohn originally became a director in connection with the company's acquisition of Rubbermaid in 1999. He will continue to serve as a director until the company's annual meeting in May, when he will retire pursuant to the mandatory retirement provision in the company's corporate governance guidelines.
ATLANTA, February 11, 2010
"Bill Marohn has provided extraordinary leadership during a time of significant transformation at Newell Rubbermaid, and we are enormously thankful for his service to our company and board," said Mark Ketchum, President and Chief Executive Officer of Newell Rubbermaid. "Mike Cowhig is an excellent choice to continue this legacy of positive change, having made astute assessments of the business in his five years on the board, backed up by a strong track record of proven leadership ability and business success in his career at Gillette."
"Newell Rubbermaid has made huge progress in its transformation into a consumer-driven innovation and brand building company," said Marohn. "I am proud to have served this outstanding organization and I wish Mike Cowhig, and everyone at Newell Rubbermaid, continued success."
Commenting on his appointment, Cowhig said, "I enthusiastically accept this expanded role at a time when Newell Rubbermaid is gaining momentum. The board and I are confident that the company will continue to make strong progress in its journey of transformation."
Cowhig, age 63, has been a Newell Rubbermaid director since 2005. He had a distinguished 38-year career at Gillette, serving in senior roles in global manufacturing, supply chain, technical operations and business development. After the company was acquired by Procter & Gamble, he was President, Global Technical and Manufacturing for the Gillette Global Business Unit until his retirement in 2006.
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with sales of approximately $6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts and Aprica.
About Newell Rubbermaid
TM
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
NWL-EX


