FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20100129080039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On January 29, 2010, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. The Company's press release, dated January 29, 2010, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, excluding restructuring charges, as well as "Normalized" earnings are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Economic Dilution" (Non-GAAP) is useful for investors because it represents the post-maturity impact of the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued by the Company in March 2009 and the associated hedge transactions. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring charges and one-time events such as tax benefits and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share and free cash flow is as performance goals that help determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
 
Table of Contents
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced fourth quarter 2009 financial results, including normalized earnings per share of $0.27, more than double the prior year quarter results. The company also reported strong operating cash flow and year over year gross margin expansion.
ATLANTA, January 29, 2010
President and Chief Executive Officer Mark Ketchum said, "We are pleased to report solid fourth quarter results which demonstrate a number of positive trends as we finished out the year. In a challenging year, we grew market share in the majority of our businesses, significantly improved both gross and operating margins, lowered working capital to generate increased operating cash flow, and reduced structural costs while continuing to invest in support of our brands. The combination of top line sales stabilization and outstanding margin performance allowed us to ramp up strategic spending in the fourth quarter in order to drive growth in 2010. We look forward to capitalizing on the progress we've made in the implementation of our strategy as we enter 2010 with a stronger portfolio that is more responsive to consumer understanding, product innovation and brand marketing."
Net sales declined 2 percent to $1.42 billion in the fourth quarter, compared to $1.45 billion in the prior year. Core sales were down 1 percent to prior year and planned product line exits reduced net sales by 4 percent, while foreign currency translation contributed 3 percent of improvement.
Gross margin for the quarter was 37.0 percent, up 700 basis points from last year reflecting productivity gains and improved product mix. Also contributing to the year over year margin expansion was the positive impact from product line exits, pricing and lower input costs.
Excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $13.0 million in 2009 and $19.0 million in 2008 and $299.4 million of impairment charges in 2008, operating income was $142.3 million, or 10.0 percent of sales, in the fourth quarter 2009, compared to $80.3 million, or 5.5 percent of sales, in the prior year.
Normalized earnings were $0.27 per diluted share, compared to $0.11 per diluted share in the fourth quarter 2008. For the fourth quarter 2009, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.04 for Project Acceleration restructuring costs and related impairment charges and the associated tax effects, $0.02 dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the associated hedge transactions and $0.01 per diluted share associated with the company's adoption of the parallel rate to translate the results of its Venezuelan operations beginning in
 
 
the fourth quarter 2009. For the fourth quarter 2008 normalized earnings per share exclude $0.05 for Project Acceleration restructuring costs, non-cash impairment charges of $299.4 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, and tax benefits of $26.4 million, or $0.09 per diluted share. The non-cash impairment charges were required to write down to fair value goodwill related to certain business units in the company's Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products and Office Products segments. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $60.6 million, or $0.20 per diluted share. This compares to $(256.7) million, or $(0.92) per diluted share, in the fourth quarter 2008, which included the above mentioned non-cash impairment charges.
The company generated strong operating cash flow of $187.1 million during the fourth quarter, driven by increased earnings and working capital management, particularly inventory. This compares to operating cash flow of $211.9 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $45.6 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $35.7 million last year.
A reconciliation of the fourth quarter 2009 and last year's results is as follows:
 
Twelve Months Results
Net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 declined 14 percent to $5.58 billion, compared to $6.47 billion in the prior year. Core sales declined 7 percent. Product line exits lowered net sales by 5 percent and foreign currency translation reduced net sales by 2 percent. Acquisitions increased net sales by 1 percent.
Gross margin was 36.7 percent, a 390 basis point improvement versus the prior year. The positive impact from planned product line exits, lower input costs and 2008 pricing actions more than offset the effect of reduced manufacturing volumes.
Normalized earnings were $1.31 per diluted share, an increase of 8 percent compared to $1.21 per diluted share in the prior year. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, diluted earnings per share on a normalized basis excludes the impact of $0.26 per diluted share related to Project Acceleration restructuring costs and $0.06 per diluted share related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the associated hedge transactions. Other items in 2009 include those described above for the fourth quarter 2009 and one-time costs of $0.01 per diluted share incurred for the early retirement of $325 million principal amount of
 
 
medium-term notes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, diluted earnings per share on a normalized basis excludes the impact of $0.31 per diluted share related to Project Acceleration restructuring costs. Other items in 2008 include those described above for the fourth quarter 2008, as well as the net of tax impact of the company's purchase of a call option with respect to its $250 million of 6.35% Reset notes due 2028 for approximately $52 million in the third quarter 2008, or approximately $0.13 per diluted share, and a tax benefit of $3.5 million in the third quarter 2008, or $0.01 per diluted share. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported on a GAAP basis, was $285.5 million, or $0.97 per diluted share. This compares to $(52.3) million, or $(0.18) per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $602.8 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, compared to $454.9 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $153.3 million, compared to $157.8 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the full year 2009 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2010 Full Year Outlook
The company expects core sales to increase in the low single digits in 2010, a two percent decline from planned product exits and a slightly positive impact from foreign currency. Gross margin is anticipated to improve 75 to 100 basis points.
The company expects normalized earnings of $1.35 to $1.45 per diluted share, which includes an estimated $0.04 to $0.05 negative impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Excluding this $0.04 to $0.05 unfavorable currency impact from 2010 normalized EPS, the midpoint of the company's outlook range represents a 10 percent increase over 2009's normalized EPS of $1.31.
Operating cash flow is projected to be approximately $500 million for the full year, including approximately $70 to $80 million in restructuring cash payments. The company expects capital expenditures of approximately $160 million.
 
 
A reconciliation of the 2010 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
 
Conference Call
The company's fourth quarter 2009 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, January 29, 2010 at 9:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2009 sales of approximately $5.6 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts
TM
and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
 
Contacts:
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; our ability to refinance short-term debt on terms acceptable to us, particularly given the uncertainties in the global credit markets; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended December 31, 2009
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2009
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 


