FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20100107083025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 9, 2009, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "December 9, 2009 8-K") stating that Magnus Nicolin would no longer serve as the Companys President, Newell Rubbermaid Europe, Middle East & Africa and Newell Rubbermaid Asia Pacific. The Company is filing this Form 8-K/A to supplement the Item 5.02 disclosure in the December 9, 2009 8-K. (e) On January 1, 2010 the Company entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release (the "Separation Agreement") with Magnus Nicolin. A copy of the Separation Agreement is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The material terms of the Separation Agreement are as follows: (i) base salary continuation for 12 months or until Mr. Nicolin finds alternative employment exceeding $5,000 per month, whichever comes first (such salary continuation period may be extended up to an additional 6 months); (ii) in the event Mr. Nicolin finds alternat ive employment prior to December 31, 2010, a lump sum payment equal to 50% of the value remaining with respect to the initial 12 month salary continuation period (if such alternative employment is found prior to June 30, 2010, Mr. Nicolin will receive a total amount under both (i) and (ii) equal to nine months of salary continuation); (iii) continued coverage under the Companys health and dental programs during the salary continuation period, at active employee rates; (iv) his stock options that are vested or become vested by March 31, 2010 will remain exercisable through March 31, 2010; (v) retention of restricted stock awards granted in February 2007, February 2008 and December 2008 with vesting to occur at original vesting dates of the respective awards; (vi) a lump sum payment of $20,000; (vii) tax equalization for 2009 and tax preparation services for 2009 and 2010; (viii) reimbursement of up to $25,000 in outplacement expenses; (ix) payment of rent of leased apartment in location of Company 019;s EMEA headquarters through March 31, 2010; and (x) payment of costs related to Mr. Nicolins move back to the United States from the Companys EMEA headquarters. Until December 31, 2011, Mr. Nicolin is prohibited from (i) competing with the Company by accepting employment with certain specified companies; and (ii) soliciting certain Company employees, customers and suppliers. In the event Mr. Nicolin breaches his obligations under the Separation Agreement, the Company is entitled to stop his salary continuation payments and to obtain all other relief provided by law or equity. The Separation Agreement also contains a release of claims provision. Mr. Nicolin has seven days in which to revoke his acceptance of the Separation Agreement. If he does not revoke his acceptance, the Separation Agreement shall become effective the day after the seven day revocation period.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 Separation Agreement and General Release
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

January 1, 2010
Magnus Nicolin
Re: Settlement Agreement and General Release
Dear Magnus:
This letter when signed by you, will constitute the full settlement agreement ("Agreement") between you and Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ("the Company") on the terms of your separation from employment with the Company and your position of President  EMEA and APAC, Newell Rubbermaid Inc., and any other positions that you may have held with the Company in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific or elsewhere. By entering into this Agreement, neither you nor the Company make any admission of any failing or wrongdoing. Rather, the parties have merely agreed to resolve amicably any existing or potential disputes arising out of your employment with the Company and the separation thereof, as both parties desire to settle fully any and all matters between them relating to your employment under your Offer Letter of July 14, 2006 ("Offer Letter"), and your Expatriate Employment Agreement dated August 30, 2006 and the Addendum thereto (collectively the "Expatriate Agreement").
You recognize and understand that the foregoing is a general release by which you are giving up the opportunity to obtain compensation, damages, and other forms of relief for yourself, and that the receipt of the compensation and benefits described in Paragraph 2 shall be in lieu of and discharge any obligations of the Company to you for compensation, reimbursement, costs, attorney's fees, expenses, relocation expenses, or any other expectation of remuneration or benefit related to your employment and the termination thereof, and compensates you for any damage you may have suffered as a result of your employment and the termination thereof. You further agree that the compensation and benefits shall constitute the entire amount of monetary consideration provided to you under this Agreement and that you will not seek any further compensation or monies, in the United States or abroad, from the Company, or any division or affiliate or related entity of the Company, in connection with your employment with and termination from the Company. This Agreement, however, does not release any claims to enforce this Agreement, or any claims that you are precluded from waiving by operation of law, and it is not intended to and does not interfere with the right of any governmental agency to enforce laws or to seek relief that may benefit the general public, or your right to assist with or participate in that process. By signing this Agreement, however, you waive any right to personally recover against the Released Parties, and you give up the opportunity to obtain compensation, damages or other forms of relief for you other than that provided in this Agreement.
BIC Brother Pilot Edding Mont Blanc Ecolab Doral Maclaren B&D/Stanley Bosch LeCrueset Groupe SEB Promethean Smart Luida e-instructions Turning Technologies. Zebra Stamps.com Seiko Brady
The parties agree that this section does not limit you from being employed with a private equity company that may have an ownership interest in a company on the foregoing list, provided, however, that you do not otherwise violate this section of the Agreement.
You further agree that you will not accept employment with, or perform any services for any company, business, person or entity, without first notifying in writing Jim Sweet, or his successor, assign or delegate, as to the same.
If you accept the terms of this Agreement, please date and sign this letter and return it to me. Once you execute this Agreement, you have seven (7) days in which to revoke in writing your acceptance by providing the same to me, and such revocation will render this Agreement null and void. If you do not revoke your acceptance in writing and provide it to me by midnight on the seventh day, this Agreement shall be effective the day after the seven-day revocation period has elapsed.
Sincerely,
/s/ Jim Sweet
Jim Sweet EVP HR (CHRO) and Corporate Communications
By signing this letter, I represent and warrant that I have not been the victim of age or other discrimination or wrongful treatment in my employment and the termination thereof. I further acknowledge that the Company advised me in writing to consult with an attorney, that I had at least twenty-one (21) days to consider this Agreement, that I received all information necessary to make an informed decision and I had the opportunity to request and receive additional information, that I understand and agree to the terms of this Agreement, that I am satisfied with the terms incorporated herein, which represent a full and fair settlement, that I have executed the Agreement after independent investigation and without fraud, duress, or undue influence, that nothing contained herein is inconsistent with any state or federal law, that I have seven (7) days in which to revoke my acceptance of this Agreement, and that I am signing this Agreement voluntarily with full knowledge and understanding of its contents.


