FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20110317111904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(d) On March 14, 2011, the Board of Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") elected Kevin C. Conroy to serve as a Class III director of the Company.
As a non-employee director, Mr. Conroy will receive an annual retainer of $100,000 and is eligible to participate in the Company's 2008 Deferred Compensation Plan under which he may defer up to 100% of his fees. Non-employee directors also receive an annual restricted stock unit award valued at $100,000, with the number of restricted stock units determined by the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The restricted stock unit award is typically made in May of each year and vests on the first anniversary of the date of grant. A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the election of Mr. Conroy to the Board of Directors is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)        Exhibits.
Exhibit
Number                                Description
99.1        Press Release dated March 17, 2011.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

- Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced that Kevin Conroy has been elected to the company's board of directors, raising the total number of directors to 12. Conroy, age 50, is President of Univision Interactive Media Inc., the digital division of Univision Communications Inc., recognized as one of the premier media companies serving the U.S. Hispanic market.
ATLANTA, March 17, 2011
With more than 20 years of advertising and media experience, Conroy is a veteran in the consumer Internet and online media businesses, having held a number of senior programming, product, marketing, distribution and operations roles. Under his leadership, Univision Interactive Media has developed key partnerships to expand and enhance the Univision user experience as the most-visited Spanish-language website among U.S. Hispanics.
"Kevin is one of the most accomplished global executives in the field of internet marketing and media," said Michael Cowhig, Chairman of Newell Rubbermaid's board of directors. "He brings a dynamic combination of people and technology leadership to our board."
"Kevin is a true pioneer who has spent his entire career building digital content that engages consumers, which is an increasingly vital opportunity for our brands," said Mark Ketchum, Newell Rubbermaid's President and Chief Executive Officer. "We will benefit from his deep expertise and leadership in this rapidly evolving area."
Over his career, Conroy has managed such well-known Web brands as AOL, AIM, ICQ, Moviefone, Netscape, Truveo and Winamp. Prior to Univision, he spent eight years at AOL, most recently as Executive Vice President of Global Products and Marketing. At AOL, he is credited with revitalizing the company's products for the Mac and iPhone platforms, as well as building AOL Music, launching AOL Sessions and AOL's online radio offerings, and establishing a partnership with CBS Radio to create the largest online radio network.
Prior to AOL, Conroy was Chief Marketing Officer and President of New Technology at BMG Entertainment, a division of Bertelsmann AG, where he was responsible for overseeing all marketing and new media development and managed worldwide marketing campaigns for BMG's artists.
Conroy was recognized by Broadcasting & Cable as a 2010 Digital All-Star and named one of Digital Media Wire's 25 Executives to Watch in 2010. He is a graduate of Bowdoin College.
About Newell Rubbermaid
, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, .
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2010 sales of approximately $5.8 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox
Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Aprica
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, www.newellrubbermaid.com.
 
Contacts:
Nancy O'Donnell David Doolittle
Vice President, Investor Relations Vice President, Corporate Communications
+1 (770) 418-7723 +1 (770) 418-7519
NWL-EX
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring costs, costs and cost savings, inflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail economies in light of the global economic slowdown; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; our ability to refinance short term debt on terms acceptable to us, particularly given the recent turmoil and uncertainty in the global credit markets; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.


