FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20111028080201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On October 28, 2011, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011. The Company's press release, dated October 28, 2011, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that "Normalized" operating income is also useful because it provides investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repurchases of common stock, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring and restructuring-related charges and one-time events such as losses related to the extinguishments of debt, tax benefits, impairment charges and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share is as a
 
Table of Contents
performance goal that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
On October 26, 2011, the Company committed to implement a program designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business, funded by a reduction in structural SG&A costs. Cost savings from the program, named Project Renewal, are expected to be achieved in large part through a consolidation of the current three operating groups into two, and of 13 global business units into nine. The new operating groups, which will be operational effective January 1, 2012, will be named Newell Consumer and Newell Professional.
The Company expects to generate cost savings of approximately $90 to $100 million when the program is fully implemented by the end of 2012. The majority of the savings is expected to be realized in 2012 and will be reinvested in the business to unlock accelerated growth. In addition, the consolidation of two manufacturing facilities and two distribution centers will be implemented as part of the plan, with the goal of increasing operational efficiency, reducing costs, and improving gross margin.
In connection with the program, the Company expects to incur cash costs of $75 to $90 million and record pretax restructuring charges in the range of $90 to $100 million through the end of 2012, the majority of which are employee-related cash costs, including severance, retirement, and other termination benefits and costs. Charges of between $30 and $40 million are expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011. The Company estimates a total net headcount reduction of approximately 500 resulting from the program.
 
(b) On October 28, 2011, the Company announced that Jay D. Gould would no longer serve as the Company's Group President, Home & Family effective as of January 1, 2012.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced third quarter results and reaffirmed full-year core sales, normalized EPS and operating cash flow guidance. The company also announced Project Renewal, an initiative that will simplify and realign the structure of the company, freeing up resources to be reinvested for profitable growth and strengthened marketing and selling capabilities.
ATLANTA, October 28, 2011
Michael Polk, President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "Our third quarter results represent a solid step forward. Core sales growth, operating income margin improvement and operating cash flow came in as expected and improved meaningfully versus our first half and year ago results. These are good numbers in the context of a really tough macro environment and represent progress towards our goal of delivering consistent predictable results and sustainable profitable growth."
"Our return to growth in the third quarter gives us the confidence to take the next important step toward our future. This morning we announced Project Renewal, an initiative designed to reduce complexity in our operating structure and realign resources to our highest potential businesses. We plan to achieve savings of approximately $90 to $100 million over the next twelve to eighteen months, and invest the majority of these funds back into the business in increased brand building support, strengthened demand creation capabilities in customer development and marketing, and the development of our business system in emerging markets. We are making these changes with the ambition to create a bigger, faster growing, more global and more profitable Newell Rubbermaid."
Executive Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2011 Operating Results
Net sales in the third quarter were $1.55 billion, an increase of 5.8 percent over the prior year. Core sales grew 3.3 percent and foreign currency had a positive 2.5 percent impact on sales. Strong performance from emerging markets, as well as distribution gains and share gains in all geographies, were the primary growth drivers.
Operating income margin on a normalized basis for the third quarter was 13.7 percent, up 20 basis points versus the prior year and 40 basis points versus the prior quarter. The improvement in operating income margin was achieved despite gross margin contraction of 100 basis points to 37.4 percent, as higher input cost inflation was only partially offset by pricing and productivity. Decreases in structural SG&A more than offset the gross margin decline enabling increased investment in strategic SG&A of 80 basis points as a percentage of sales versus the prior year period.
 
 
Third quarter operating income on a normalized basis was $211.8 million compared with $197.7 million in the prior year period. Third quarter normalized operating income excludes $382.6 million of impairment charges primarily related to goodwill write-downs associated with the Baby & Parenting and Hardware global business units, $17.0 million of restructuring and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan and $4.4 million in incremental costs associated with the company's CEO transition. In 2010, normalized operating income excluded $23.1 million in Project Acceleration restructuring costs and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan.
The normalized tax rate for the quarter was 28.2 percent compared with 30.5 percent in the prior year. The year-over-year change in tax rate was primarily driven by the geographical mix in earnings and the timing of certain discrete items.
Normalized earnings were $0.45 per diluted share compared with prior year normalized results of $0.42 per diluted share, attributable to the increase in sales, lower structural SG&A costs and interest expense savings, partially offset by the impact of input cost inflation and higher strategic SG&A spending.
For the third quarter 2011, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $1.05 per diluted share for impairment charges primarily related to goodwill write-downs, net of tax, $0.06 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan, net of tax, $0.01 per diluted share related to the incremental costs associated with the Company's CEO transition, $0.01 of dilution from adding common stock equivalents to the weighted average shares in the quarter, and a benefit of $0.10 per diluted share resulting from the reversal of certain tax contingencies due to the expiration of various statutes of limitation. In addition, the company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $11.2 million, or $0.04 per share, reflecting the income from discontinued operations and loss on disposal of the Bernzomatic hand torch and solder business, which has also been excluded from normalized earnings. For the third quarter 2010, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.05 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs, net of tax, $0.04 per diluted share of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions, $0.45 per diluted share in charges and other impacts associated with the Capital Structure Optimization Plan, and a benefit of $0.21 per diluted share reflecting the favorable resolution of a tax examination. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.) All quarters presented in the attached financial statements have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bernzomatic results as discontinued operations.
As a result of its annual impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets, the company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $382.6 million, or $1.05 per diluted share. This charge primarily relates to the impairment of goodwill at the company's Baby & Parenting and Hardware global business units.
Net loss, as reported, was $177.6 million, or a loss of $0.61 per diluted share, for the third quarter. This compares to net income of $28.3 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash of $295.3 million during the third quarter, compared with $194.5 million in the comparable period last year. In the third quarter of 2010, the company made a voluntary $50 million pension contribution which did not occur in the current year. Other factors
 
 
in the year-over-year change were a shift in working capital needs due to later Back To School order patterns by certain customers and the timing of new product launches. Capital expenditures were $55.1 million in the third quarter compared with $38.8 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the third quarter 2011 and last year's results is as follows:
 
 
Third Quarter 2011 Operating Segment Results
The Home & Family segment's net sales for the third quarter were $626.7 million, a 2.9 percent increase compared with the prior year quarter. Core sales in the segment increased 1.1 percent driven by growth in the Culinary Lifestyles, Beauty and Style and Rubbermaid Consumer businesses. Baby & Parenting core sales, although declining year over year, showed sequential improvement. Operating income in the Home & Family segment was $88.6 million, or 14.1 percent of sales, compared with the 2010 third quarter income of $76.2 million, or 12.5 percent of sales. The profitability improvement was largely the result of lower structural SG&A costs.
The company's Office Products segment posted third quarter net sales of $474.9 million, a 5.5% increase over last year with foreign currency having a 3.3 percent positive impact on sales. Driving
 
 
the year over year core sales improvement of 2.2 percent was a healthy Back To School performance, particularly in North America, as well as high single digit growth in our Technology business. The Office Products segment's operating income was $76.9 million, or 16.2 percent of sales, as compared with $70.8 million, or 15.7 percent of sales, in the prior year. Gross margin was pressured by input cost inflation and a competitive North American Back To School environment. Increased strategic spending was partially offset by lower structural expenses.
Third quarter net sales in the Tools, Hardware & Commercial segment were $448.3 million, a 10.3 percent improvement over the prior year. Core sales increased 7.5 percent, excluding a favorable foreign currency impact of 2.8 percent. Core sales in emerging markets delivered continued momentum with double digit growth in the quarter. Third quarter operating income was $65.5 million, or 14.6 percent of sales, compared with $70.6 million, or 17.4 percent of sales, in the prior year. Input cost inflation and a competitive pricing environment pressured gross margins. Strategic SG&A increased over the prior year due to unfavorable foreign currency translation and targeted support to fuel organic growth in faster growing markets and new categories.
Project Renewal
The company today announced Project Renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business, funded by a reduction in structural SG&A costs. Cost savings will be achieved in large part through a consolidation of the current three operating groups into two, and of thirteen global business units into nine. The new operating groups, which will be operational effective January 1, 2012, will be named Newell Consumer and Newell Professional. Newell Consumer will be headed by Penny McIntyre, currently President, Office Products, and Newell Professional will be headed by William Burke, currently President, Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products. The final alignment of the global business units into the two groups will be announced at a later date.
In addition, the consolidation of two manufacturing facilities and two distribution centers will be implemented as part of the plan, with the goal of increasing operational efficiency, reducing costs, and improving gross margin.
Project Renewal is expected to generate cost savings of approximately $90 to $100 million when fully implemented by the end of 2012. The majority of the associated savings is expected to be realized in 2012 and will be reinvested in the business to unlock accelerated growth. The company expects to incur cash costs of $75 to $90 million and record pretax restructuring charges in the range of $90 to $100 million over the same period. Charges of between $30 and $40 million are expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011. The company estimates a total net headcount reduction of approximately 500 resulting from the plan.
As part of Project Renewal, Jay Gould will be leaving the company effective January 1, 2012. "I want to thank Jay for his leadership and service at Newell Rubbermaid," said Polk. "After the CEO succession process, Jay was instrumental during my transition into the role and I appreciate his assistance in making that process seamless. I would like to wish him success as he leaves Newell Rubbermaid to pursue another leadership position."
 
 
Nine Months Results
Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 increased 3.6 percent to $4.37 billion, compared with $4.22 billion in the prior year. Core sales increased 1.1 percent for the nine months and foreign currency translation increased net sales by 2.5 percent.
Gross margin was 37.7 percent, a 50 basis point decline versus the prior year, primarily due to higher input cost inflation partially offset by pricing and productivity.
Normalized earnings were $1.19 per diluted share compared with $1.18 per diluted share in the prior year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, normalized earnings exclude the same items as those in the third quarter 2011, with the exception of the dilution from adding common stock equivalents to the weighted average shares, as well as an additional benefit of $0.07 per diluted share resulting from the reversal in the first half of the year of certain tax contingencies due to the expiration of various worldwide statutes of limitation and $0.01 per diluted share for a loss related to the retirement of convertible notes. In addition, the company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $8.1 million, or $0.03 per share, reflecting the income from discontinued operations and the loss on disposal of the Bernzomatic hand torch and solder business, which has been excluded from normalized earnings. For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, normalized earnings excluded the same items as those in the third quarter 2010 as well as a benefit of $0.01 per diluted share related to the impact of hyperinflationary accounting for the company's Venezuelan operations. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $44.8 million, or $0.15 per diluted share. This compares to $217.1 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $279.8 million during the first nine months of 2011 compared with $377.9 million in the prior year. The year-over-year change in operating cash flow is primarily driven by the timing of working capital requirements and higher inventory levels in anticipation of international expansion and new product introductions. Capital expenditures were $151.2 million, compared with $108.1 million in the prior year.
 
 
A reconciliation of the first nine months 2011 and last year's results is as follows:
 
 
2011 Full Year Outlook
The company reaffirmed its full year expectation for sales growth of three to five percent. Core sales growth guidance of one to three percent is unchanged. In addition, foreign currency is still expected to have an approximate two point positive impact on full year sales.
The company updated its assumptions for gross margin to reflect its expectation for higher input cost inflation and a more price sensitive consumer environment in the U.S. Revised guidance is that gross margin will be flat to down 30 basis points year over year, compared with its previous expectation of gross margin expansion of 40 to 60 basis points.
The company continues to expect normalized earnings per diluted share in the range of $1.55 to $1.62 despite a $0.04 per share negative impact resulting from the company's divestiture of its Bernzomatic torch and solder business.
The company's 2011 normalized EPS expectation excludes approximately $8 million related to the incremental costs associated with its CEO transition, $383 million in impairment charges primarily associated with goodwill write-downs, between $60 and $70 million of restructuring and other plan-related costs associated with the company's European Transformation Plan and between $30 and $40 million of restructuring
 
 
charges associated with Project Renewal. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Operating cash flow guidance is unchanged at between $520 and $560 million for the full year, including approximately $85 to $95 million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payments. The company anticipates capital expenditures of approximately $200 million during the year.
A reconciliation of the 2011 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
Conference Call
The company's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, October 28, 2011, at 9:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2010 sales of approximately $5.7 billion and a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Contacts:
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, the European Transformation Plan, the Capital Structure Optimization Plan, Project Renewal, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring and restructuring related costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's latest quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2011
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
2010 results have been adjusted to reclassify the results of operations of the BernzOmatic business to discontinued operations.
(1)-
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
 
 


