FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20110127074947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On January 27, 2011, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. The Company's press release, dated January 27, 2011, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, excluding charges, as well as "Normalized" earnings are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's
 
management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring and restructuring related charges and one-time events such as losses related to the extinguishments of debt, tax benefits and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share is as a performance goal that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced fourth quarter 2010 financial results, including normalized earnings per share of $0.34, a 26 percent improvement over prior year results, core sales growth of 4.9 percent and gross margin of 37.1%.
ATLANTA, January 27, 2011
"I'm pleased to report the conclusion of a successful year for Newell Rubbermaid," said Mark Ketchum, President and CEO. "We finished out 2010 with very positive fourth quarter results. For both the quarter and the full year, we delivered mid-single digit core sales growth, year-over-year gross margin improvement, strong double-digit normalized EPS growth and robust operating cash flow. As I look back on 2010, I think it's most notable that we consistently grew cores sales in a sluggish economy and delivered on all of our financial targets, while continuing to advance our long-term growth strategies. By staying focused on the drivers that are in our control, we have created our own momentum to deliver once again a full year of the growth trifecta  sales growth, gross margin expansion and normalized earnings growth. We exit 2010 with positive momentum that provides even greater confidence in our 2011 prospects."
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $1.47 billion, an increase of 3.4 percent compared with the prior year. Core sales improved 4.9 percent. The year over year impact of last year's product line exits reduced net sales by 0.8 percent, and foreign currency translation had a negative 0.7 percent impact on sales.
Gross margin for the quarter was 37.1 percent, up 10 basis points from last year as improved product mix and productivity more than offset the impact of input cost inflation.
Fourth quarter operating income, on a normalized basis, was $152.6 million, or 10.4 percent of sales, excluding $30.8 million of Project Acceleration restructuring costs and restructuring related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan. In 2009, normalized operating income was $142.3 million, or 10.0 percent of sales, excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $13.0 million.
The tax rate for the quarter was 21.2% compared to 29.3% in the prior year. The primary drivers of the decreased tax rate relate to recent U.S. legislation changes and improved profitability outside the United States, which allowed the company to benefit from foreign losses that had not previously been available.
Normalized earnings were $0.34 per diluted share compared to prior year normalized results of $0.27 per diluted share, driven by sales growth, improved gross margin, reduced interest expense and a lower tax rate. For the fourth quarter 2010, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.08 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring related costs, net of tax. For the fourth quarter 2009, normalized earnings per share excluded $0.04 per diluted share for Project Acceleration restructuring costs, net of tax, $0.02 per diluted share of dilution related to
 
 
the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions, and $0.01 per diluted share associated with the company's adoption of the parallel rate to translate the results of its Venezuelan operations beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $75.7 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter. This compares to net income of $60.6 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $204.7 million during the fourth quarter, compared to $187.1 million in the comparable period last year. Capital expenditures were $56.6 million in the fourth quarter compared to $45.6 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the fourth quarter 2010 and last year's results is as follows:
 
Full Year Results
Net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 3.3 percent to $5.76 billion, compared to $5.58 billion in the prior year. Core sales increased 4.7 percent for the full year. Foreign currency translation had a negligible impact on net sales, while the year over year impact of last year's product line exits lowered net sales by 1.4 percent.
Gross margin was 37.7 percent, a 100 basis point improvement versus the prior year. Productivity gains and improved product mix more than offset the effect of input cost inflation.
Normalized earnings were $1.52 per diluted share compared to $1.31 per diluted share in the prior year. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, normalized earnings exclude $0.24 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring related costs, net of tax; $0.10 per diluted share of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions; $0.44 per diluted share in charges and other impacts associated with the Capital Structure Optimization Plan; a benefit of $0.21 reflecting the favorable resolution of a tax examination and a benefit of $0.01 per diluted per share related to hyperinflationary accounting for the company's Venezuelan operations. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, normalized earnings excluded the same items as those in the fourth quarter 2009, as well as one-time costs of $0.01 per diluted share incurred for the early retirement of $325 million principal amount of medium-term notes. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
 
 
Net income, as reported, was $292.8 million, or $0.96 per diluted share. This compares to $285.5 million, or $0.97 per diluted share, in the prior year.
"Another notable strategic milestone in 2010 was the completion of Project Acceleration," said CEO Mark Ketchum. "This multi-year restructuring program was designed to consolidate and streamline our manufacturing and supply chain operations to achieve greater efficiency and best cost. Since the inception of Acceleration, we have reduced our manufacturing footprint by 60% and optimized our distribution and transportation network. By the end of 2011 we will have delivered in excess of $220 million in annualized savings. Project Acceleration required significant effort and resources; and with that hard work behind us, we are now better able to focus on growth."
Cumulative restructuring costs incurred through the completion of Project Acceleration in 2010 totaled $498 million.
The company generated operating cash flow of $582.6 million during 2010 compared to $602.8 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures were $164.7 million, compared to $153.3 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the full year 2010 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2011 Full Year Outlook
The company expects core sales to increase four to five percent in 2011 and estimates that foreign currency will have a negligible impact on sales. Gross margin is expected to improve 50 to 75 basis points with the combination of productivity, mix and pricing more than offsetting input cost inflation.
 
 
The company expects normalized earnings per diluted share to increase 10 to 12 percent in 2011.
The company's 2011 normalized EPS expectation excludes between $80 and $85 million of restructuring and other Plan-related costs associated with the company's European Transformation Plan. The company expects to realize annualized net income improvement of $55 to $65 million, upon completion of the European Transformation Plan, and estimates the initiative will result in aggregate restructuring and other Plan-related costs of $110 to $115 million. The costs will be substantially incurred by the end of 2011, and the bulk of the benefits will accrue beginning in the middle of 2012. The Plan's benefit and cost guidance compares to the previously communicated annualized savings range of $50 to $60 million and a project cost range of $90 to $100 million. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.) Additionally, the implementation of SAP in Europe, previously expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011, is now estimated to be completed in the first half of 2012.
Operating cash flow is expected to exceed $550 million for the full year, including approximately $90 to $100 million in restructuring and restructuring related cash payments. The company plans to fund capital expenditures of approximately $180 to $200 million during the year.
A reconciliation of the 2011 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
Conference Call
The company's fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, January 27, 2011, at 10:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2010 sales of approximately $5.8 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Technical Concepts
TM
and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Contacts:
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, the European Transformation Plan, the Capital Structure Optimization Plan, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring and restructuring related costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's latest quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended December 31, 2010
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2010
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
 


