FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20110429075823.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On April 29, 2011, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011. The Company's press release, dated April 29, 2011, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that operating income, excluding charges, as well as "Normalized" earnings are also useful because they provide investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring and restructuring-related charges and one-time events such as losses related to the extinguishments of debt, tax benefits and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share is as a performance goal that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
 
Table of Contents
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced first quarter 2011 financial results, including normalized diluted earnings per share of $0.30, a 20 percent improvement over prior year results, gross margin of 37.7 percent and 0.3 percent lower net sales. The company also announced it will raise its quarterly dividend 60 percent to 8 cents per share.
ATLANTA, April 29, 2011
"First quarter results represent a solid start to the year, especially our earnings and gross margin performance," said Mark Ketchum, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We remain confident in our ability to meet our full year guidance of 4 to 5 percent core sales growth, gross margin expansion of 50 to 75 basis points and normalized EPS growth of 10 to 12 percent. Our international businesses led the way, building on already strong momentum, with core sales growth of almost 5 percent. Developing markets, where we have substantially increased our focus and investment, grew double digits in the first quarter."
"Our topline performance fell short of expectations driven mainly by consumer trade down behavior and reduced promotional activity affecting two key businesses," added Ketchum. "We are taking steps to respond to these trends by introducing additional value priced items and restoring promotional activity behind our new product launches. These actions, in concert with already strong growth trends in our other businesses, give us confidence in our full year growth projections. In addition, our Board of Directors' decision to increase our quarterly dividend shows further confidence in our track record of strong cash flows and improving credit metrics."
Net sales in the first quarter were $1.30 billion, a decline of 0.3 percent compared with the prior year. Core sales contracted 1.7 percent and foreign currency translation had a positive 1.4 percent impact on sales. The company estimates that core sales in last year's first quarter were favorably impacted by approximately 2.6 percent due to pre-buying by certain customers in anticipation of the April 2010 SAP go live, and last year's fourth quarter core sales were favorably impacted by customer order acceleration to qualify for annual volume rebates. Together, these two events accounted for approximately $40 million in timing shifts. Adjusting for these timing differences, first quarter 2011 core sales growth would have been 1.5 percent.
Gross margin for the quarter was 37.7 percent, up 160 basis points from last year as pricing, favorable mix and productivity more than offset the impact of input cost inflation.
First quarter operating income, on a normalized basis, was $141.7 million, or 10.9 percent of sales, excluding $11.1 million of restructuring and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan. In 2010, normalized operating income was $146.1 million, or 11.2 percent of sales, excluding Project Acceleration restructuring costs of $16.0 million.
 
 
The normalized tax rate for the quarter was 25.0 percent compared to 37.2 percent in the prior year. The year-over-year tax rate improvement was driven by a change in the geographical mix of earnings, as well as the 2010 impact of non-cash tax charges associated with the vesting of equity-based compensation and the expiration of certain domestic tax credits.
Normalized earnings were $0.30 per diluted share compared to prior year normalized results of $0.25 per diluted share, driven by improved gross margin, reduced interest expense and a lower tax rate. For the first quarter 2011, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.04 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan, net of tax and $0.01 per diluted share for a loss related to the retirement of convertible notes. For the first quarter 2010, normalized earnings per share excluded $0.04 for Project Acceleration restructuring costs, net of tax, and $0.02 of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $75.7 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for the first quarter. This compares to net income of $58.4 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, in the prior year.
"A notable milestone in the quarter was the completion of the accelerated share repurchase program, which marks the conclusion of our capital structure optimization plan," said CEO Mark Ketchum. "The objectives of the plan were to reduce interest cost, eliminate future share dilution and strengthen the balance sheet with a simpler, more shareholder-friendly capital structure. I am pleased to announce that we successfully accomplished all of these objectives. With the completion of the capital structure optimization plan, the company in effect repurchased 27.9 million of the 40 million shares that were issued in convertible debt exchanges. The anticipated interest savings resulting from this initiative will more than offset overall share dilution, with the impact expected to be $0.02 accretive to diluted earnings per share."
The company used operating cash of $108.3 million during the first quarter, compared to cash generation of $29.4 million in the comparable period last year. Higher inventory levels in anticipation of international expansion and new product introductions and the timing of customer program and income tax payments are the primary contributors to the year-over-year change in operating cash flow. Capital expenditures were $44.9 million in the first quarter compared to $31.5 million in the prior year.
 
 
A reconciliation of the first quarter 2011 and last year's results is as follows:
 
2011 Full Year Outlook
The company reiterated its 2011 guidance for core sales growth of four to five percent and estimates that foreign currency will have a positive one to two point impact on sales growth. Gross margin is still expected to improve 50 to 75 basis points with the combination of productivity, mix and pricing more than offsetting input cost inflation.
The company also reaffirmed its expectation of a year-over-year increase in normalized earnings per diluted share of 10 to 12 percent in 2011.
The company's 2011 normalized EPS expectation excludes between $80 and $85 million of restructuring and other Plan-related costs associated with the company's European Transformation Plan. The company expects to realize annualized net income improvement of $55 to $65 million upon completion of the European Transformation Plan in 2012, and estimates the initiative will result in aggregate restructuring and other Plan-related costs of $110 to $115 million. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Operating cash flow is expected to exceed $550 million for the full year, including approximately $90 to $100 million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payments. The company plans to fund capital expenditures of approximately $200 million during the year.
 
 
A reconciliation of the 2011 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
Conference Call
The company's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, April 29, 2011, at 9:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2010 sales of approximately $5.8 billion and a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site,
www.newellrubbermaid.com.
Contacts:
 
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, the European Transformation Plan, the Capital Structure Optimization Plan, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring and restructuring related costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the global economic slowdown; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2011
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 


