FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20111230154343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On October 28, 2011, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, which included disclosure under Item 5.02 stating Jay D. Gould would no longer serve as the Company's Group President, Home & Family effective as of January 1, 2012. The Company is filing this Form 8-K/A to update the Item 5.02 disclosure.
(e) On December 29, 2011, the Company entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release (the "Separation Agreement") with Jay D. Gould, Group President, Home & Family. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Gould's employment with the Company is considered terminated effective January 1, 2012. A copy of the Separation Agreement is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The material terms of the Separation Agreement are as follows:
(i) base salary continuation for fifty-six (56) weeks or until Mr. Gould finds alternative employment, whichever comes first (such salary continuation period may be extended up to an additional 4 weeks at the discretion of the Company); (ii) in the event Mr. Gould finds alternative employment prior to January 31, 2013, a lump sum payment equal to 50% of the value remaining with respect to the fifty-six (56) week month salary continuation period; (iii) continued coverage under the Company's health and dental programs during the salary continuation period, at active employee rates; (iv) continued use of a Company leased vehicle for up to fifty-six (56) weeks; and (v) reimbursement of up to $20,000 in outplacement expenses.
Mr. Gould's outstanding stock option and restricted stock unit ("RSU") awards are forfeited with the exception of his (i) February 11, 2009 stock option award, which will vest on February 11, 2012, and be exercisable through April 13, 2012; (ii) February 10, 2010 stock option award, which will vest on February 10, 2013, and be exercisable through March 15, 2013; and (iii) February 11, 2009 and February 10, 2010 RSU awards, which will vest pursuant to their original terms.   
Until December 31, 2013, Mr. Gould is prohibited from competing with the Company's Home & Family businesses anywhere in the world. He is also prohibited from soliciting certain Company employees through December 31, 2013. In the event Mr. Gould breaches his obligations under the Separation Agreement, the Company is entitled to stop his salary continuation payments and recover salary continuation already paid to him and to obtain all other relief provided by law or equity.
The Separation Agreement also contains a release of claims provision. Mr. Gould has seven days in which to revoke his acceptance of the Separation Agreement. If he does not revoke his acceptance, the Separation Agreement shall become effective the day after the seven day revocation period.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
10.1        Separation Agreement dated December 29, 2011 between the Company and Jay D. Gould.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

This letter when signed by you will constitute the full agreement between you and Newell Rubbermaid (the "Company") on the terms of your separation from employment ("Agreement"). By entering into this Agreement, neither you nor the Company makes any admission of any failing or wrongdoing. Rather, the parties have merely agreed to resolve amicably any existing or potential disputes arising out of your employment with the Company and the separation thereof.
1. Provided you execute this Agreement, your employment with the Company will be considered terminated effective January 1, 2012 ("Separation Date"). Unless otherwise requested by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, you shall be excused from reporting to work through the Separation Date. If you do not execute this Agreement, please be advised that your Separation Date is the date provided at the top of this letter or the date that this letter is presented to you, whichever is later.
to who brought said complaint or charge and whether the compensation, damages or other relief is recovered directly or indirectly on your behalf., and you understand and agree that this Agreement shall serve as a full and complete defense by Newell Rubbermaid and the Released Parties to any such claims.
If you accept the terms of this Agreement, please date and sign this letter and return it to me. Once you execute this Agreement, you have seven (7) days in which to revoke in writing your acceptance by providing the same to me, and such revocation will render this Agreement null and void. If you do not revoke your acceptance in writing and provide it to me by midnight on the seventh day, this Agreement shall be effective the day after the seven-day revocation period has elapsed.
/s/ Jim Sweet
Jim Sweet, Executive Vice President  Human Resources (CHRO)
By signing this letter, I represent and warrant that I have not been the victim of age or other discrimination or wrongful treatment in my employment and the termination thereof. I further acknowledge that the Company advised me in writing to consult with an attorney, that I had at least forty-five (45) days to consider this Agreement, that I received all information necessary to make an informed decision and I had the opportunity to request and receive additional information, that I understand and agree to the terms of this Agreement, that I have seven (7) days in which to revoke my acceptance of this Agreement, and that I am signing this Agreement voluntarily with full knowledge and understanding of its contents.
The decisional unit is comprised of all Group Presidents. All persons included in the program and offered consideration in exchange for signing a release agreement have been selected based on the following selection/eligibility criteria: skills, abilities, qualifications, experience, overall job performance, and the business needs of the Company.
All such individuals are being offered consideration under a release agreement and must sign the agreement and return it to the Company.
The job titles and ages of all individuals eligible and selected or not selected for the termination program are the following:


