FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20121127161102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
In October 2012, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") committed to an expansion of Project Renewal, designed to further simplify and align the business around two key activities  Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery. As part of the expanded program, the Company's Consumer and Professional groups were eliminated and the Company's nine global business units were streamlined into six business segments. The six business segments and the brands included in each of the six business segments are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Going forward, the Company will report its segment information based on these six business segments.
On November 27, 2012, the Company issued a press release to provide investors with financial data reflecting the change in the Company's segments. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. While investors are being provided financial data reflecting the change in the Company's segments described above, the Company has not in any way revised or restated its historical financial statements for any period.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information responsive to this Item is set forth under Item 2.02 above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
While the company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2011 sales of approximately $5.9 billion and a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


