FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20121109093628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 6, 2012
NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (770) 418-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(e)    As previously reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 2012, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the Company) appointed William A. Burke III as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer beginning October 26, 2012. In connection with his appointment, on November 6, 2012, the Organizational Development & Compensation Committee of the Company (the Committee) granted Mr. Burke 41,099 performance-based restricted stock units which vest as follows:
Any portion of the award not vested as of November 6, 2019 will expire.  The Restricted Stock Unit Agreement incorporating the terms of the award described above is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. The Committee also increased Mr. Burkes base salary to $660,000 per year.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
    
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
    

NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC. 2010 STOCK PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
Performance-Based RSU Award Grant Agreement
A Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Award (the Award) granted by Newell Rubbermaid Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), to the employee named in the attached Award letter (the Grantee) relating to the common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the Common Stock), of the Company, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and the provisions of the Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 2010 Stock Plan, a copy of which is attached
hereto and the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
1.
Acceptance by Grantee
. The receipt of the Award is conditioned upon its acceptance by the Grantee in the space provided therefor at the end of the attached Award letter and the return of an executed copy of such Award letter to the Secretary of the Company no later than 60 days after the Award Date set forth therein or, if later, 30 days after the Grantee receives this Agreement.
2.
    
Grant of RSUs
. The Company hereby grants to the Grantee the Award of RSUs, as set forth in the Award letter. An RSU is a restricted stock unit representing the right, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, to receive a distribution of a share of Common Stock for each RSU as described in Section 6 of this Agreement.
3.
    
RSU Account
. The Company shall maintain an account (RSU Account) on its books in the name of the Grantee which shall reflect the number of RSUs awarded to the Grantee.
4.
    
Dividend Equivalents
. Upon the payment of any dividend on Common Stock occurring during the period preceding the earlier of the date of settlement of the Grantees Award as described in Section 6 or the date the Grantees Award is forfeited as described in Section 5, the Company shall credit the Grantees RSU Account with an amount equal in value to the dividends that the Grantee would have received had the Grantee been the actual owner of the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Performance-Based RSUs in the Grantees RSU Account on that date. Such amounts shall be paid to the Grantee in cash at the time and to the extent the related Performance-Based RSUs vest and are settled. Any such dividend equivalents credited to the Grantees RSU Account, relating to Performance-Based RSUs that are forfeited, shall also be forfeited.
5.
    
Vesting
.
(a)
    
Except as described in Sections 5(b) below, the Grantee shall become vested in his Performance-Based RSU Award following the date of the grant of the Awards (the Award Date) if he remains in continuous employment with the Company or an affiliate, and satisfies the applicable performance conditions, as set forth below:
1
(b)
    
If the Grantees employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates prior to the applicable vesting date due to death or disability, the unvested portion of the Awards shall become vested on such date. For this purpose disability means (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) the inability of the Grantee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or disability or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.
(c)
    
If the Grantees employment with the Company and all affiliates terminates prior to satisfying the applicable vesting conditions set forth in the applicable table in Section 5(a) above for any reason other than death or disability, the unvested portion of each Award shall be forfeited to the Company.
The foregoing provisions of this Section 5 shall be subject to the provisions of any written employment security agreement or severance agreement that has been or may be executed by the Grantee and the Company, and the provisions in such employment security agreement or severance agreement concerning vesting of an Award shall supersede any inconsistent or contrary provision of this Section 5.
6.
    
Settlement of Award
. Except as otherwise provided in Section 12 hereof, if the Grantee becomes vested in his Awards, or any portion thereof, in accordance with Section 5, the Company shall distribute to him, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of RSUs subject to the Award then becoming vested. Such shares shall be delivered within 30 days following the date of vesting.
7.
    
Withholding Taxes
. The Company shall withhold from any distribution made to the Grantee in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy all minimum Federal, state and local withholding tax requirements. In the case of a distribution made in shares of Common Stock, the Grantee shall pay to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy all minimum Federal, state and local withholding tax requirements prior to
2
the delivery of any shares. Payment of such taxes may be made at the Grantees election by one or more of the following methods: (i) in cash, (ii) in cash received from a broker-dealer to whom the Grantee has submitted irrevocable instructions to deliver the amount of withholding tax to the Company from the proceeds of the sale of shares subject to the Award, (iii) by directing the Company to withhold a number of shares otherwise issuable pursuant to the Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the tax required to be withheld, (iv) by delivery to the Company of other Common Stock owned by the Grantee that is acceptable to the Company, valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of payment, or (v) by certifying to ownership by attestation of such previously owned Common Stock.
8.
    
Rights as Stockholder
. The Grantee shall not be entitled to any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Award, including the right to vote and to receive dividends and other distributions, until and to the extent the Award is settled in shares of Common Stock.
9.
    
Share Delivery
. Delivery of any shares in connection with settlement of the Award will be by book-entry credit to an account in the Grantees name established by the Company with the Companys transfer agent, or upon written request from the Grantee (or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as the case may be), in certificates in the name of the Grantee (or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate).
10.
    
Award Not Transferable
. The Award may not be transferred other than by will or the applicable laws of descent or distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. The Award shall not otherwise be assigned, transferred, or pledged for any purpose whatsoever and is not subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution or levy of any kind. Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, or encumbrance of the Award, other than in accordance with its terms, shall be void and of no effect.
11.
    
Administration
. The Award shall be administered in accordance with such regulations as the Organizational Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Committee) shall from time to time adopt. In the event of any conflict between the terms of such regulations and this Award Agreement, the terms of this Award Agreement shall control.
12.
    
Section 409A Compliance
. To the extent that the Grantee's right to receive payment of the RSUs and dividend equivalents constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the timing of payment (but not the vesting and nonforfeitability) of shares of Common Stock and cash otherwise deliverable hereunder shall be subject to the following rules:
(a)
    
The shares of Common Stock underlying the vested Performance-Based RSUs and the related dividend equivalents shall be delivered to the Grantee, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, within 30 days following the earlier of (i) the Grantees death; (ii) the Grantees disability (as defined under Section 409A of the Code); (iii) the Grantees "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, subject to Section 12(b); or (iv) the occurrence of a Change in Control that also constitutes a change in the ownership, a change in the effective control or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company with the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; or (iv) the seventh anniversary of the Award Date.
(b)
    
Notwithstanding Section 12(a), if any RSUs and related dividend equivalents become payable as a result of the Grantee's termination of employment (other than as a result of death) which constitutes a separation from service and the Grantee is a "specified employee," as determined under the Company's policy for determining specified employees on the date of such separation from
3
service, then the shares of Common Stock underlying the vested RSUs and related dividends shall be delivered to the Grantee, or his personal representative, beneficiary or estate, as applicable, within 30 days after the first business day that is more than six months after the date of his or her separation from service (or, if the Grantee dies during such six-month period, within 30 days after the Grantee's death).
(c)
    
In the event that any taxes described in Section 7 of this Agreement are due prior to the distribution of shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs, then the Grantee shall be required to satisfy the tax obligation by using any method set forth in Section 7.
13.
    
Data Privacy Consent
. The Grantee hereby consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantees personal data as described in this document by the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Grantees participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that the Company and its subsidiaries hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock or stock units awarded, canceled, purchased, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantees favor for the purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan (Data). The Grantee understands that the Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantees country or elsewhere and that the recipient country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantees country. The Grantee understands that he may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantees participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data, as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any shares or other award acquired under the Plan. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting the local human resources representative in writing. The Grantee understands that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Grantees ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of refusing to consent or withdrawing consent, the Grantee understands that he may contact his or her local human resources representative.
14.
    
Electronic Delivery
. The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by the Grantee by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and
4
delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
15.
    
Governing Law
. This Agreement, and the Award, shall be construed, administered and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Delaware.
NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.
/s/ John K. Stipancich
John K. Stipancich
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and Executive Leader EMEA
5


