FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20120127082916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02, and the Exhibit attached to this Report, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Consequently, such items are not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such items may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On January 27, 2012, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") reported its results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. The Company's press release, dated January 27, 2012, and Additional Financial Information, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and Additional Financial Information contain non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, a "non-GAAP financial measure" is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. Operating and statistical measures and certain ratios and other statistical measures are not non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of the definition, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided, as a part of the press release and Additional Financial Information, a reconciliation of each of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company has used certain financial measures that are included in the press release and Additional Financial Information both in presenting its results to stockholders and the investment community and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company's management believes that these measures  including those that are "non-GAAP financial measures"  and the information they provide are useful to investors since these measures:
 
 
The Company's management believes that "Normalized" operating income is useful because it provides investors with a meaningful perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company's continuing operations. The Company's management believes that free cash flow, defined by the Company as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures, is useful to investors because it is an indication of amounts of cash flow that may be available for dividends, repurchases of common stock, repayment of debt and further investment in future growth initiatives. The Company's management believes that adjusted sales, as reflected in the Currency Analysis included in Exhibit 99.1, is useful to investors because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency translation on reported sales. The Company's management believes that "Normalized" earnings per share, which excludes restructuring and restructuring-related charges and one-time events such as losses related to the extinguishments of debt, tax benefits, impairment charges and certain other items, is useful to investors because it permits investors to better understand year-over-year changes in underlying operating performance. Another purpose for which the Company uses "Normalized" earnings per share is as a performance goal that helps determine the amount, if any, of cash bonuses for corporate management and other employees under the Company's management cash bonus plan.
Table of Contents
While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company's performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.
 
The information set forth under Item 2.02 above and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is also intended to be furnished under this Item 7.01 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced fourth quarter 2011 results with core and net sales growth of 3.7 percent and normalized earnings per share of $0.40, a 21.2 percent improvement versus prior year. Reported diluted earnings per share of $0.27 represents an 8.0% improvement compared with the prior year.
ATLANTA, January 27, 2012
"Newell Rubbermaid's fourth quarter results were solid in a continuing tough environment," said President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Polk. "Our fourth quarter core sales growth of 3.7 percent was the strongest quarter of the year. Our EPS delivery was very good and full year operating cash flow was at the high end of our guidance range."
"In 2012, we expect to sustain our momentum delivering sequentially improved core sales growth versus our full year 2011 results, despite the weak developed world macroeconomic environment. We will continue to invest in our company's future by further strengthening our brand building and selling capabilities as we build Newell Rubbermaid into a bigger, faster growing, more profitable, more global company. In this context, we now expect to increase our full year core sales growth rate from 1.8 percent in 2011 to between 2 and 3 percent in 2012; increase normalized operating margin by up to 20 basis points; increase normalized EPS by about 3 to 6 percent, or $1.63 to $1.69 per share; and deliver operating cash flow of $550 to $600 million."
Fourth Quarter Executive Summary
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Operating Results
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $1.50 billion, an increase of 3.7 percent over the prior year. Core sales growth, defined as sales excluding foreign currency translation, was also 3.7 percent. Strong performance from emerging markets, new product pipeline fill, as well as distribution and share gains in North America, were the primary growth drivers. Foreign currency had a nominal impact on net sales in the quarter, a significant change from the first three quarters' cumulative positive 250 basis point impact.
Fourth quarter gross margin of 37.2 percent represented a slight decrease of 10 basis points versus the prior year as pricing and productivity largely offset the negative impact of input cost inflation and costs associated with operational issues at the Decor global business unit.
Normalized operating margin for the fourth quarter was 11.8 percent, up 150 basis points versus the prior year. The improvement in normalized operating margin was mainly driven by a reduction in SG&A expense. Brand building and other strategic SG&A spending, in absolute dollars, were essentially flat in the quarter, while structural SG&A decreased by approximately $9 million.
Fourth quarter operating income on a normalized basis was $176.8 million compared with $149.1 million in the prior year period. Fourth quarter normalized operating income excludes $49.4 million of restructuring and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan and Project Renewal and $1.9 million in incremental costs associated with the company's CEO transition. In 2010, normalized operating income excluded $30.8 million in Project Acceleration restructuring costs and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with the European Transformation Plan.
The normalized tax rate for the quarter was 23.0 percent compared with 20.8 percent in the prior year. The year-over-year change in tax rate was primarily driven by the geographical mix in earnings and certain discrete items in the prior year.
Normalized earnings were $0.40 per diluted share compared with prior year normalized results of $0.33 per diluted share. The improvement was attributable to the increase in sales and lower structural SG&A costs, partially offset by the impact of input cost inflation and a higher effective tax rate.
For the fourth quarter 2011, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.12 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan and Project Renewal, as well as the impact of a net loss from discontinued operations of $1.3 million, or less than $0.01 per diluted share. For the fourth quarter 2010, normalized diluted earnings per share exclude $0.08 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs as well as the net income from discontinued operations of $2.3 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
 
Net income, as reported, was $80.4 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter. This compares with net income of $75.7 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash of $281.5 million during the fourth quarter, compared with $204.7 million in the comparable period last year. The improvement was primarily related to a reduction in the company's inventory position in the quarter. Capital expenditures were $71.7 million in the fourth quarter compared with $56.6 million in the prior year.
A reconciliation of the fourth quarter 2011 and last year's results is as follows:
 
* totals may not add due to rounding
Fourth Quarter 2011 Operating Segment Results
The Home & Family segment's net sales for the fourth quarter were $628.3 million, a 1.2 percent increase compared with the prior year quarter. Core sales in the segment increased 0.9 percent driven by a return to growth in Baby & Parenting and a strong performance by Culinary Lifestyles, offset by weak results in Dcor. Operating income in the Home & Family segment was $70.7 million, or 11.3 percent of sales, compared with the 2010 fourth quarter income of $61.2 million, or 9.9 percent of sales. The profitability improvement was largely the result of lower structural SG&A costs.
The Office Products segment posted fourth quarter net sales of $439.1 million, a 3.7 percent increase over last year. Core sales growth was 3.8 percent with all businesses contributing to the improvement. The Office Products segment's operating income was $72.1 million, or 16.4 percent of sales, as compared with $51.9 million, or 12.3 percent of sales, in the prior year. Pricing, productivity and lower structural SG&A costs more than offset input cost inflation in the quarter.
Fourth quarter net sales in the Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment were $427.8 million, a 7.7 percent improvement over the prior year. Core sales increased 8.0 percent driven by strong results from Commercial Products, Construction Tools & Accessories and Industrial Products & Services. Fourth quarter operating income was $56.8 million, or 13.3 percent of sales, compared with $57.4 million, or 14.4 percent of sales, in the prior year. SG&A expense increased over the prior year as the company invested to build capabilities and strengthen performance in faster growing emerging markets.
 
Full Year Results
Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 3.6 percent to $5.86 billion, compared with $5.66 billion in the prior year. Core sales increased 1.8 percent for the full year.
Gross margin was 37.6 percent, a 40 basis point decline versus the prior year, primarily due to higher input cost inflation, partially offset by pricing and productivity.
Normalized earnings were $1.59 per diluted share compared with $1.50 per diluted share in the prior year. In 2011, normalized earnings exclude $1.03 per diluted share for impairment charges, primarily related to goodwill write-downs; $0.24 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan and Project Renewal; $0.02 per diluted share related to the incremental costs associated with the company's CEO transition; $0.01 per diluted share for a loss related to the retirement of convertible notes; and benefits of $0.17 per diluted share resulting from the reversal of certain tax contingencies due to the expiration of various statutes of limitation. In addition, the company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $9.4 million, or $0.03 per share, reflecting the income from discontinued operations and the loss on disposal of the hand torch and solder business, which has also been excluded from normalized earnings. In 2010, normalized earnings exclude $0.24 per diluted share for restructuring and restructuring-related costs; $0.10 per diluted share of dilution related to the conversion feature of the convertible notes issued in March 2009 and the impact of associated hedge transactions; $0.44 per diluted share in charges and other impacts associated with the Capital Structure Optimization Plan; a benefit of $0.21 reflecting the favorable resolution of a tax examination; $0.02 per diluted share reflecting the income from discontinued operations of the hand torch and solder business, which has been excluded from normalized earnings; and a benefit of $0.01 per diluted share related to hyperinflationary accounting for the company's Venezuelan operations. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
Net income, as reported, was $125.2 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. This compares to $292.8 million, or $0.96 per diluted share, in the prior year.
The company generated operating cash flow of $561.3 million during 2011 compared with $582.6 million in the prior year. The year-over-year change is primarily driven by a decrease in accrued liabilities. Capital expenditures were $222.9 million, compared with $164.7 million in the prior year.
 
A reconciliation of the full year 2011 and last year's results is as follows:
 
* totals may not add due to rounding
2012 Full Year Outlook
The company's initial outlook for full year 2012 core sales growth is an increase of 2 to 3 percent, which excludes a projected negative impact on net sales of approximately 2 percentage points from currency.
The company expects 2012 normalized operating margin improvement of up to 20 basis points and 2012 normalized earnings per diluted share to be between $1.63 and $1.69.
The company's 2012 normalized EPS expectation excludes between $110 and $130 million of restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the company's European Transformation Plan and with Project Renewal. (A reconciliation of the "as reported" results to "normalized" results is included below.)
The company is on track to realize cumulative annualized net income improvement of $55 to $65 million related to the European Transformation Plan, the majority of which is reflected in the 2011 base. The Project Renewal annualized cost savings of approximately $90 to $100 million are expected to be realized by the first half of 2013 and are intended to fund increased investments to strengthen brand building and selling capabilities in markets around the world.
 
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $550 and $600 million for the full year, including approximately $110 to $120 million in restructuring and restructuring related cash payments. The company plans to fund capital expenditures of $200 to $225 million during the year.
A reconciliation of the 2012 earnings outlook is as follows:
 
Conference Call
The company's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call is scheduled for today, January 27, 2012, at 10:00 am ET. To listen to the webcast, use the link provided under Events & Presentations in the Investor Relations section of Newell Rubbermaid's Web site at . The webcast will be available for replay for two weeks. A brief supporting slide presentation will be available prior to the call under Quarterly Earnings in the Investor Relations section on the company's Web site.
www.newellrubbermaid.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Included in this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2011 sales of approximately $5.9 billion and a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Aprica.
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, .
www.newellrubbermaid.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical in nature constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to information or assumptions about the effects of sales, income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Acceleration, the European Transformation Plan, the Capital Structure Optimization Plan, Project Renewal, capital and other expenditures, cash flow, dividends, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation, particularly with respect to commodities such as oil and resin, debt ratings, and management's plans, projections and objectives for future operations and performance. These statements are accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "project," "will," "believe," "estimate" and similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the continuation or escalation of the global economic slowdown or regional sovereign debt issues; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers' strong bargaining power; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and our ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; our ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen our end-user brands; our ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; our ability to implement successfully information technology solutions throughout our organization; our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to our credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to our pension plans due to declining asset values or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than our provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in our foreign operations and those factors listed in the company's latest quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and exhibit 99.1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NWL-EA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Three Months Ended December 31, 2011
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
 
 
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011
In Millions
Currency Analysis
 
 
 


