FILE:NWL/NWL-8K-20120809081413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(d) On August 7, 2012, the Board of Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the "Company") elected Ignacio Perez Lizaur to serve as a director of the Company.
As a non-employee director, Mr. Perez Lizaur will receive an annual retainer of $100,000 and is eligible to participate in the Company's 2008 Deferred Compensation Plan under which he may defer up to 100% of his fees. Non-employee directors also receive an annual restricted stock unit award valued at $110,000, with the number of restricted stock units determined by the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The restricted stock unit award is typically made in May of each year and vests on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Mr. Perez Lizaur has been named to serve on the Company's Audit Committee.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the election of Mr. Perez Lizaur to the Board of Directors is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

ATLANTA, Aug. 9, 2012
-
Newell Rubbermaid (NYSE: NWL) today announced that former Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive Ignacio Perez Lizaur has been elected to the company's board of directors, returning the total number of directors to 12. 
Perez Lizaur, age 60, is recognized as one of the leading architects of Walmart's expansion into Latin America.  As Director General of Sam's Club Mexico in 1991, he headed Walmart's very first international venture.  Perez Lizaur subsequently drove significant sales growth in the region through a series of assignments leading Walmart operations in Argentina, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Puerto Rico.  His 26-year career with Walmart culminated in the position of Executive Vice President of Operations for the Sam's Club division, with responsibility across 600 stores in the U.S.  Upon retiring in 2010, he was appointed to Walmart's hall of fame for his contributions to the retailer's international development.
"Ignacio adds an important dimension to Newell Rubbermaid's board as a top retail merchant who has built and run businesses in one of the fastest growing regions in the world," said Michael Cowhig, Chairman of Newell Rubbermaid's board of directors.
"Ignacio's deep experience and knowledge of the route-to-market dynamics in the emerging markets will be invaluable to us as we expand our footprint into these high-growth geographies," said Michael Polk, Newell Rubbermaid's President and Chief Executive Officer.  "My team and I are excited to draw on his vast perspective."
Before joining Walmart, Perez Lizaur held several posts with the Federal Government of Mexico, including General Director of Employment in the Ministry of Labor and an economist in the Ministry of the Budget.  During his tenure, he launched a joint project between the World Bank and Mexico's state governments focused on temporary employment and training.
Perez Lizaur currently serves on several corporate and non-profit boards, including Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V., Mexico's largest commercial bakery operation, and the Children's Miracle Network in the U.S.  A native of Mexico City, he holds a B.S. in Economics from Mexico National University and an M.A. in Development Studies from the University of East Anglia in Norwich, England.
About Newell Rubbermaid
Newell Rubbermaid Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products with 2011 sales of approximately $5.9 billion and a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Rubbermaid, Sharpie, Graco, Calphalon, Irwin, Lenox, Levolor, Paper Mate, Dymo, Waterman, Parker, Goody, .
Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Aprica
This press release and additional information about Newell Rubbermaid are available on the company's Web site, www.newellrubbermaid.com.
Contacts:
Nancy O'Donnell                                               David Doolittle
Vice President, Investor Relations                      Vice President, Corporate Communications
+1 (770) 418-7723                                              +1 (770) 418-7519
NWL-EX
 


