FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20051101143026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following information, including the exhibit described below, shall not be deemed "filed" hereunder for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 31, 2005, Caterpillar Inc. held an analyst meeting in New York and a copy of the webcast presentation transcript is attached and furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K report and is incorporated herein by reference. The furnishing of the webcast presentation transcript is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the webcast presentation transcript includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
LEGAL NOTICE
This webcast presentation transcript was provided by Thomson Financial, an unrelated third party, and is a textual representation of a live meeting held on October 31, 2005. Please refer to Thomson Financials Disclaimer for information related to textual representations.
 
DISCLAIMER
The webcast presentation transcript is for informational purposes only. Caterpillar disclaims any responsibility for inadvertent errors and the accuracy of any financial information, data, or other information that may be contained in the transcript. The transcript is provided as is and may contain material errors, typographical mistakes, omissions, misstatements, inaccuracies, inaudible statements and references to non-GAAP financial metrics.
CATERPILLAR MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE AS TO THE QUALITY, CONTENT, COMPLETENESS, SUITABILITY, ACCURACY, ADEQUACY, SEQUENCE, OR TIMELINESS OF THE CONTENT FOUND IN THE TRANSCRIPT.
 
SAFE HARBOR
In addition, the webcast presentation transcript may contain certain statements related to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as expects,anticipates,intends,plans,believes,seeks,will, or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, currency exchange rates or political stability; market acceptance of the companys products and services; significant changes in the competitive environment; changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 



