FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20050721122404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following is Caterpillar Inc.'s prepared statements from the results webcast held on July 21, 2005. The furnishing of these materials is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the materials include material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
Opening Remarks
Good morning and welcome to Caterpillar's 2nd Quarter 2005 results conference call. I'm Mike DeWalt, the Director of Investor Relations.
With me on the call today are Jim Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Dave Burritt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc. Any use, recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the express written consent of Caterpillar Inc. is strictly prohibited. If youd like a printed version of the prepared conference call remarks, you can go to the SEC filings in the Investor section of our website where they are filed as an 8-K.
To leave more time for Q & A I dont intend reiterate what was in the release other than a few key points on the second quarter and the revised outlook for 2005 and speaking of the outlook 
Certain information well be discussing today is forward looking and involves uncertainties that could impact expected results. A discussion of those uncertainties is in a Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.
OK, let's start with second quarter results.
2nd Quarter Results
This morning Im very pleased to report record sales and revenues, and record profit for the second quarter. Sales and revenues were 9 billion, 360 million dollars and profit was 760 million  or $1.08 a share. Just a reminder - the 2 for 1 stock split became effective last week, and the per share amounts in our release all reflect the split. Sales and revenues were 23% higher than Q2-2004, and profit was 34% higher.
As you read our release, and the Q&A included in the release, youll likely come to the conclusion that in some areas of our business, supply and production capacity are still very key issues  and they certainly are.
To put the situation in context I think its worth noting that sales have been on a pretty significant upward trend for over two years. While sales and revenues are up 23% from last year, theyre up 58% from the second quarter of 2003.
Meeting customer demand is a key issue for us and we have numerous 6 Sigma projects working throughout the company related to improving order fulfillment. Considering the level of growth weve seen -- our suppliers, dealers, and employees have done a great job responding to the substantial increase in demand.
 
Outlook
Lets turn from the second quarter to the outlook.
2005 continues to shape up as a great year, and were raising the outlook for Sales and Revenues, and profit again.
We now expect our 2005 sales and revenues to be up 18 to 20% vs. 2004 and profit to be between $4.00 and $4.20 per share.
Thats an increase from the prior outlook of about 2 percent in sales and revenues and an improvement to profit of 11 to 17 cents a share for the year.
In dollar terms that puts the outlook for Sales and Revenues in the range of 35.8 to 36.4 billion dollars - another record year.
Before we move to Q&A Id just like to mention that Full details of the outlook for 2005, including other assumptions, are contained in the press release we issued this morning.
And, monthly retail statistics for June, as well as other supplemental information, can found on our website at www.Cat.com under the About Cat tab under Investor Information.
Q&A
OK, lets move to the Q&A portion of the call. In the interest of time and fairness to others, please limit yourself to one question and one follow up. First question please...
Closing
It's been a pleasure sharing Caterpillar's results with all of you this morning. If you didn't get your questions asked today, please call me. Thanks for your interest in Caterpillar. Goodbye.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
Certain statements contained in our second-quarter 2005 results release and prepared statements from the related results webcast are forward-looking and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. The words "believes," "expects," "estimates," "anticipates," "will be," "should" and similar words or expressions identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and the markets it serves.
 
World Economic Factors
Our projection for 3 to 3.5 percent growth in the world economy assumes central banks will cautiously raise interest rates so as not to slow growth too much. Low interest rates, and continued good economic growth, should encourage further growth in construction and mining. Should central banks raise interest rates aggressively, both the world economic recovery and our Machinery and Engines sales likely would be weaker.
 
We expect the U.S. economy to continue to grow at about 3.5 percent, which up to now has not created an inflation problem. While the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates, we assume the continuation of moderate growth and low inflation will result in interest rates of 4 percent or less by the end of 2005. Long-term interest rates are expected to rise less than short-term rates. That environment should support further growth in construction and manufacturing, helping to keep commodity prices favorable. Should financial conditions tighten noticeably, causing economic growth to slow below 3 percent, expected improvements in Machinery and Engines sales likely would be lower than projected.
 
Our projection of increased sales of Machinery and Engines in Europe, Africa, Middle East (EAME) assumes that low interest rates will allow slightly faster economic growth in Europe and that favorable commodity prices will extend healthy recoveries in both Africa and Middle East (AME) and the CIS. Key risks are a significant slowing in the European economy or a collapse in commodity prices. Those developments would likely negatively impact our results.
 
 
Favorable commodity prices, increased capital inflows and an improved foreign debt situation are expected to contribute to about 4 percent growth in Latin America. As a result, we project that both mining production and construction spending will increase, supporting an increase in Machinery and Engines sales. This forecast is vulnerable to a significant weakening in commodity prices, slowing in world economic growth, widespread increases in interest rates or political disruptions.
 
In Asia/Pacific, we project sales growth will be concentrated in Australia, India and Indonesia. Critical assumptions are continued growth in coal demand, low domestic interest rates in most countries, further gains in exports and continued good economic growth in China. Some developments that could lower expected results include reduced demand for thermal and coking coal, significant revaluations of regional currencies, restrictions on regional exports and sharp interest rate hikes, particularly in China.
 
Commodity Prices
Commodities represent a significant sales opportunity, with prices and production as key drivers. Prices have improved sharply over the past two years and our outlook assumes continued growth in world industrial production will cause metals prices to remain high enough in 2005 to encourage further mine investment. Any unexpected weakening in world industrial production or construction, however, could cause prices to drop sharply to the detriment of our results.
 
Coal production and prices improved last year and our sales have benefited. We expect these trends to continue in 2005. Should coal prices soften, due to a slowing in world economic growth or otherwise, the ongoing sales recovery would be vulnerable.
 
Oil and natural gas prices increased sharply over the past two years due to strong demand and high capacity usage. Higher energy prices have not halted economic recoveries since strong demand boosted prices and world production increased. High prices are encouraging more exploration and development and we expect increased production in 2005 will constrain price increases. However, should significant supply cuts occur, such as from OPEC production cuts or political unrest in a major producing country, the resulting oil shortages and price spikes could slow economies, potentially with a depressing impact on our sales.
 
Monetary and Fiscal Policies
For most companies operating in a global economy, monetary and fiscal policies implemented in the United States and abroad could have a significant impact on economic growth, and accordingly, demand for our product. In general, higher than expected interest rates, reductions in government spending, higher taxes, excessive currency movements, and uncertainty over key policies are some factors likely to lead to slower economic growth and lower industry demand.
 
With economic data looking more favorable, central banks in developed countries have raised interest rates from the lowest rates in decades. Our outlook assumes that central banks will take great care to ensure that economic recoveries continue and that interest rates will remain low throughout the forecast period. Should central banks raise interest rates more aggressively than anticipated, both economic growth and our sales could suffer.
 
Budget deficits in many countries have increased, which has limited the ability of governments to boost economies with tax cuts and more spending. Our outlook assumes that governments will not aggressively raise taxes and slash spending to deal with their budget imbalances. Such actions could disrupt growth and negatively affect our sales.
 
 
Political Factors
Political factors in the United States and abroad can impact global companies. Our outlook assumes that no major disruptive changes in economic policies occur in either the United States or other major economies. Significant changes in either taxing or spending policies could reduce activities in sectors important to our businesses, thereby reducing sales.
 
Our outlook assumes that there will be no additional significant military conflicts in either North Korea or the Middle East in the forecast period. Such military conflicts could severely disrupt sales into countries affected, as well as nearby countries.
 
Our outlook also assumes that there will be no major terrorist attacks. If there is a major terrorist attack, confidence could be undermined, potentially causing a sharp drop in economic activities and our sales. Attacks in major developed economies would be the most disruptive.
 
Our outlook assumes that efforts by countries to increase their exports will not result in retaliatory countermeasures by other countries to block such exports, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. Our outlook includes a negative impact from the phase-out of the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI) as enacted by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). Our outlook assumes any other tax law changes will not negatively impact our provision for income taxes.
 
Currency Fluctuations
The company has costs and revenues in many currencies and is therefore exposed to risks arising from currency fluctuations. Our outlook assumes no significant changes in currency values from current rates. Should currency rates change sharply, economic activity and our results could be negatively impacted.
 
The company's largest manufacturing presence is in the United States, so any unexpected strengthening of the dollar tends to raise the foreign currency costs to our end users and reduce our global competitiveness.
 
Dealer Practices
The company sells primarily through an independent dealer network. Dealers carry inventories of both new and rental equipment and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. The current outlook assumes dealers will increase inventories in line with higher deliveries. Should dealers control inventories more tightly, our sales would be lower.
 
Financial Products Division Factors
Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer's management team, commodity prices, political events, and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. Additionally, interest rate movements create a degree of risk to our operations by affecting the amount of our interest payments and the value of our fixed rate debt. Our "match funding" policy addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of our receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within pre-determined ranges on an ongoing basis. To achieve our match funding objectives, we issue debt with a similar interest rate profile to our receivables and also use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower our cost of borrowed funds. If interest rates move upward more sharply than anticipated, our financial results could be negatively impacted. With respect to our insurance and investment management operations, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of our investment portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings.
 
 
Other Factors
The rate of infrastructure spending, housing starts, commercial construction and mining plays a significant role in the company's results. Our products are an integral component of these activities and as these activities increase or decrease in the United States or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly impacted.
 
Projected cost savings or synergies from alliances with new partners could also be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. These factors could include, among other things, higher than expected wages, energy and/or material costs, and/or higher than expected financing costs due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any of the jurisdictions in which the alliances conduct their operations.
 
Results may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in the sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted.
 
The company operates in a highly competitive environment and our outlook depends on a forecast of the company's share of industry sales. An unexpected reduction in that share could result from pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, a failure to price the product competitively, or an unexpected buildup in competitors' new machine or dealer owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices.
 
The environment remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our 2005 sales outlook assumes that the price increases announced in early 2005 will hold in the marketplace. While we expect that the environment will absorb these price actions, delays in the marketplace acceptance would negatively impact our results. Moreover, additional price discounting to maintain our competitive position could result in lower than anticipated price realization.
 
In general, our results are sensitive to changes in economic growth, particularly those originating in construction, mining and energy. Developments reducing such activities also tend to lower our sales. In addition to the factors mentioned above, our results could be negatively impacted by any of the following:
 
  
Any sudden drop in consumer or business confidence;
 
  
Delays in legislation needed to fund public construction;
 
  
Regulatory or legislative changes that slow activity in key industries; and/or
 
  
Unexpected collapses in stock markets.
 
This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious factors such as general economic conditions throughout the world do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause the company's actual results to differ from those currently anticipated.
 
 
 



