FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20051031165117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 8.01. Other Events.
The following release was issued by Caterpillar Inc. on October 31, 2005. The furnishing of these materials is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the materials include material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
October 31, 2005
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEW YORK, New York - Caterpillar (NYSE: CAT) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Owens told a group of financial analysts and institutional shareholders that as a global leader, it is time for the company to take on new challenges and position itself for future success. At a meeting Monday in New York, Owens presented the companys new enterprise strategy and goals, which are focused on delivering Caterpillars Vision 2020.
Now is the time to define the next set of hills to conquer. We have a clear blueprint to build on our successes and strengths, said Owens. In his presentation, Owens commented that the company is operating in an environment that is conducive to industry growth and higher sales for years to come.
We have set challenging but realistic goals for 2010 and beyond, and are committed to achieving success that will reward customers, stockholders, and employees, said Owens. Its about being number one in every endeavor we pursue, affirming our leadership in technology and innovation, and creating a great place to work. These are the things that will take Caterpillar performance to the next level.
During the event, Owens provided an overview of the key goals for 2010:
Team Caterpillar is as well positioned as any company, in any industry, to succeed in the global economy, Owens said. Were excited to take on the challenges ahead of us - because we have the right strategy, products, technology, footprint and people to win.
 
 
An archived replay of the webcast and presentation visuals is available at
http://www.cat.com/investor
. The webcast presentation will also be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission following the event.
About Caterpillar Inc.
For 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been building the worlds infrastructure and, in partnership with its worldwide dealer network, is driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2004 sales and revenues of $30.25 billion, Caterpillar is a technology leader and the worlds leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. More information is available at
www.cat.com
.
SAFE HARBOR
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as expects,anticipates,intends,plans,believes,seeks,will, or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, currency exchange rates or political stability; market acceptance of the companys products and services; significant changes in the competitive environment; changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
Caterpillar contact:
Rusty Dunn
Corporate Public Affairs
309-675-4803
dunn_rusty_l@cat.com
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Caterpillars story is an exciting one of growth and profitability. We are currently operating in an environment conducive to growth, introducing a highly integrated and comprehensive new strategy that will be cascaded throughout our organization, and guiding all our actions through a values-based code of conduct. We have set challenging but realistic goals for 2010 and beyond and are committed to achieving the success that will reward our customers, stockholders, and employees.
2005/2006 Outlook
Sales and revenues and profit have grown substantially over the past few years. As a result, we surpassed our $30 billion sales and revenues goal a full two years ahead of schedule. Over the past 15 years, sales and revenues have grown at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8%, and based on the midpoint of our 2005 profit outlook, the EPS CAGR from 1993-2005 has been about 14%. We expect our strong growth to continue, with 2006 shaping up to be another record year for both sales and profit. In our outlook released on October 21, 2005, we made the following projections:
Economic and Industry Context
Worldwide, good economic growth is forecasted between now and 2010. A low inflation/interest rate environment, coupled with strong corporate profits for companies around the world and recent underinvestment, have resulted in a favorable investment climate.
The near-term outlook is particularly strong in many of the key markets Caterpillar serves, including global mining, global oil and gas production, large infrastructure projects, marine engines for cargo ships, distributed power, building construction and housing, and North American on-highway trucks. This year represents the third year of the current economic recovery, and the last two cycles have each lasted about seven years.
Elements of the New Caterpillar Strategy
Our Values in Action, expressed in our updated Worldwide Code of Conduct, are the foundation of our strategy. The Code was first published in 1974, and this updated version builds on our strong heritage by explicitly describing the values-based culture we are building across our company.
Vision 2020 is our aspirational beacon that describes in detail the company we want to be in 15 years. It explains what success looks like in the areas of market leadership, products and services, distribution system, supply chain, business model, people, sustainable development, and financial performance.
Strategic profile is an internal document that describes the key desired characteristics of the businesses in which we want to participate. Its a decision-making tool for leaders to use as a filter to ensure the businesses were in or pursuing match our profile.
Strategic goals translate our vision into numbers. This set of goals is for the year 2010, the first of three five-year plans focused on delivering our Vision 2020.
Critical success factors translate our strategic goals into actions. They identify the few things we must do right or areas of the business we must fix to achieve our goals.
Strategic areas of improvement are things we must do consistently across the organization. Caterpillar is successful in large part because our independent business units have the power to do business in the best way for their customers. In some cases, however, common practices are essential to improved performance. 
 
 
 
Key Goals and Metrics for 2010
Our 2010 strategic goalsgrouped under the 3Ps of people, performance, and profitable growthare the first set of hills to conquer as we move toward our Vision 2020 and take Caterpillar from good to great.
People
Performance - Product & Process
Profitable Growth
New Product Introduction (NPI)
Caterpillar will be introducing an exciting array of new and improved products over the next few years. The new line-up will be an important factor in achieving our goal of being number one in every major product group on every continent. The changes include the continued introduction of Caterpillars ACERT engine technology in machines, deeper drivetrain integration, and more electronics and information technology. As an industry technology leader, Caterpillar is well positioned to deliver new products and technologiesin an environment that is increasingly driven by ever more stringent emissions requirements.
Quality
Caterpillar has a longstanding reputation for quality, and continuing to improve the reliability of our products is a key element of our new strategy.
Caterpillars Service Businesses
Cat Financial, Cat Logistics, Cat Reman, and our other service businesses provide growth and earnings stability and significantly help our Machinery and Engines businesses with higher percent of industry sales (PINS), greater price realization, increased parts sales, lower costs, better asset utilization, stronger customer relations, and synergies from greater scale. We have a strategy in place to grow our proven businesses aggressively, nurture new businesses, and incubate new initiatives.
Team Caterpillar is ready for tomorrow. We are as well positioned as any company to win in the global economy and excited to take on the challenges before usbecause we have the right strategy, the right products and services, the right technology, the right global footprint, and most importantly, the right people.
Safe Harbor
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as expects,anticipates,intends,plans,believes,seeks,will, or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, currency exchange rates or political stability; market acceptance of the companys products and services; significant changes in the competitive environment; changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. To facilitate management of its operations, the company has developed a number of internal metrics, such as PINS, based on both internally generated data as well as data provided by external parties. While the company believes these metrics are reliable, their accuracy cannot be validated to the same degree as its reported financial results. The company, in providing this internally used information to investors, cannot be held accountable should any of these metrics inaccurately portray operations. Investors should not rely upon these internal metrics in making their investment decisions.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Return on Invested Capital
Caterpillar defines Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as net operating profit after tax divided by average invested capital. Management believes ROIC provides investors with an important perspective on how effectively Caterpillar deploys capital. Management calculates ROIC for the Machinery and Engines Line of Business and uses this metric internally as a high level target to assess overall performance throughout the business cycle. ROIC is a "non-GAAP financial measure" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in Regulation G. Non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and therefore, are unlikely to be comparable with calculations of similar measures for other companies. Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measure. The Machinery and Engine Line of Business data is also considered non-GAAP as defined by the SEC. Caterpillar defines Machinery and Engines as Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products on the equity basis.
All financial data below is shown as it was filed with the SEC in the year presented.
 
 
 
 



