FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20060920113616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) will publicly release August 2006 Dealer Statistics at 8:00 a.m. Central Standard Time on Thursday, September 21
th
.
This information can be obtained by telephone and by visiting our website. To access the phone recording of the release please call (309) 675-8000. An audio recording will be available with the current months Dealer Statistics report. A PDF version will also be available on
www.cat.com/investor
.
About Caterpillar Inc.
For 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been building the worlds infrastructure and, in partnership with its worldwide dealer network, is driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2005 sales and revenues of $36.33 billion, Caterpillar is a technology leader and the worlds leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. More information is available at
www.cat.com
.
SAFE HARBOR
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, will, or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, currency exchange rates or political stability; market acceptance of the companys products and services; significant changes in the competitive environment; changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the second quarter Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2006. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 



