FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20060126113514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following is Caterpillar Inc.'s prepared statements from the results webcast held on January 26, 2006. The furnishing of these materials is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the materials include material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
Year-end Conference Call Prepared Remark
Good morning and welcome to Caterpillar's year-end results conference call. I'm Mike DeWalt, the Director of Investor Relations.
With me on the call today are Jim Owens, Chairman and CEO, and Dave Burritt, Caterpillars CFO.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc. Any use, recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the express written consent of Caterpillar Inc. is strictly prohibited. If youd like a printed copy of our prepared remarks, you can go to the SEC filings in the Investor section of our website where they are filed as an 8-K theyre also available on the SECs website.
In addition, certain information well be discussing today is forward looking and involves uncertainties that could impact expected results. A discussion of those uncertainties is included in the safe harbor statement in the Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission January 26, 2006.
To start off this morning Ill take a few minutes to walk you through the past year  and the 4
th
quarter.
2005 was certainly a great year.
Sales and revenues were up 6 billion dollars to $36.3 billion for the year 20% higher than 2004 and right on the outlook we provided with the 3
rd
quarter release.
Profit per share for the year was $4.04  40% above last years $2.88 per share, 4 cents above the top end of the outlook we issued with the 3
rd
quarter release, and 11 cents per share above the mid-point of the range.
For Machinery and Engines, the operating profit pull through for the year was 20% thats the increase in operating profit divided by the increase in sales.
For the year, operating cash flow was $3.1 billion, and that included over $900 million in pension funding. We used $1.7 billion of the cash to buy back 33.9 million shares, $1.2 billion to fund capital expenditures for capacity, growth, and to support new product introduction programs. In addition, over $600 million was spent on dividends and speaking of dividends, we raised the rate in 2005 the dividend paid in the 3
rd
quarter was up 22%.
The fourth quarter was the best in our history -- in terms of Sales and Revenues, and profit.
Sales and revenues were $9.7 billion a 13% increase from fourth-quarter 2004. Profit per share was $1.20, up 56% from last year. For the quarter, operating profit pull through for machinery and engines - that is, the increase in operating profit divided by the increase in sales -- was 40% and that 40% included about $70 million of charges in the 4
th
quarter related to changes in our dealer distribution support software, and the product realignment that we highlighted in our outlook last quarter.
Well spend much of our time today talking about how 2005 compared with 2004, the 4
th
quarter comparison, and the 2006 outlook.
But I think its appropriate to go back a couple of years and put 2005 into perspective in terms of where weve come from.
2005 Sales and Revenues were up for the 3
rd
year in a row. A year ago we were talking about the extraordinary growth in 2004 when the top line was up $7.5 billion.
In dollar terms the 2005 improvement was up $6.0 billion almost as dramatic as the $7.5 billion increase in 2004.
2005 Sales and Revenues were up 60% vs 2003. When you consider that some parts of Caterpillar havent grown that fast you realize that there are areas of the company that have more than doubled over the past two years - mining trucks, for example.
Supply chain issues, expediting of material, our efficiency in dealing with rapid growth, and the production capacity of some of our factories have all been key discussion points for many of you and for us internally, over the past two years.
We didnt have a crystal ball and if you look back at our original outlooks for both 2004, and 2005 youll see that we didnt anticipate that demand for our products was going to be as significantly higher - in both years - as it turned out to be.
As a result, supply has been an issue, and in some areas it still is - like very large tires for mining trucks. However, on the whole, our suppliers rose to the challenge and have done an excellent job of supporting Caterpillar even though volume in each of the past two years ended up being quite a bit higher than wed predicted.
Weve talked a lot about factory efficiency, and the tough job weve had in ramping up production in our own factories. Its been a very significant challenge considering the production increases weve seen over the past two years. The bottom line is our employees have done an exceptional job. One of our top priorities has been responding to the needs of our customers and in an environment with the kind of growth weve experienced, it was tough but our employees have responded and 6 Sigma was a key driver in making it happen.
Core operating costs a subject that many of you have talked to us about. Its a subject thats extremely important and weve worked hard to manage in an environment of rising material costs, significant volume increases, and substantial new product introductions.
That said, costs have risen sharply over the past couple of years even so, the increase needs to be viewed in perspective.
Internally, we categorize our costs as period or variable you can get a feel for period and variable by looking at the glossary at the end of our release. The point is we volume adjust variable costs when we do our analysis the core operating cost bar in our release includes the rate increase in variable costs and material content has been the major variable cost factor over the past 2 years. For period costs SG&A, R&D, and a sizable chunk of our manufacturing costs we dont volume adjust. In our analysis, we show dollar for dollar the increase in period costs. Given a 60% increase in sales and revenues over the past 2 years its not surprising that period costs have gone up.
However as a percent of sales, period costs are lower. For example -- If you look at the combination of Machinery and Engines SG&A and R&D they were 12.7% of sales and revenues in 2003, 12.3% in 2004, and 11.4% in 2005 -- A 1.3 point drop from 2003 at a time when the investment in R&D - in absolute dollars -- has been increasing substantially to support the development and introduction of a significant number of new products.
Profit before tax as a percent of sales and revenues has risen 4.2 percentage points over the past 2 years. From 6.5% in 2003, to 8.9% in 2004, to 10.7% in 2005.
 
Now, Id like to turn it over Jim Owens, wholl take you through some of the highlights of the year and our expectations for 2006.
Jim
Bottom line 2005 was a successful and eventful year for Caterpillar, and we continued to position ourselves for the future.
All - in - all, a great year for the Company.
Before I start with the outlook Id like to reiterate a point that Mike made.
2005 was a spectacular year for Caterpillar record sales, record profit, and $3.1 billion of operating cash flow. Were proud of the accomplishments of our employees, suppliers, and dealers whove all worked so hard to meet the needs of our customers and deliver these exceptional financial results.
As for the 2006 outlook, youve probably read this morning that were maintaining our previous outlook for sales and revenues -- $40 billion - up about 10% from 2005, and weve increased our estimated profit to range from $4.65 to $5.00 per share.
We continue to have a positive view of the overall world economy, and for the industries we serve.
 
Inflation remains low in most countries and should help keep interest rates worldwide at relatively low levels. Our expectation is that the Fed is about finished raising interest rates - suggesting a Fed Funds rate under 5 percent.
 
This should support continued growth in the world economy - our forecast for worldwide economic growth is about 3.5 percent in 2006, which is about the same as 2005.
 
In particular, we expect continued strength from most of the industries we serve such as mining, road building and paving, infrastructure development, non-residential construction, and engines for petroleum, electric power, marine, and on-highway applications.
 
Overall, the fundamentals look good. That said, there are a number of challenges and risks that face both Caterpillar and the economy as a whole.
Internally, well be focused on executing our strategy - Vision 2020
 
In summary, there are a number of things we need to work on and get right in 2006 and while were at it, well also be working to improve the flexibility of our cost structure and our profitability at the bottom of the next cycle whenever that might occur.
So 2005 was a great year, 2006 looks better, we have a lot of work to do, but Im confident were well positioned for the challenges ahead.
 
 


