FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20060424135024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following is Caterpillar Inc.'s revised prepared statements from the results webcast held on April 24, 2006. The furnishing of these materials is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the materials include material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
First quarter 2006 Conference Call Prepared Remark
Q1-2006 Conference Call Prepared Remarks
Good morning and welcome to Caterpillar's first quarter conference call. I'm Mike DeWalt, the Director of Investor Relations.
With me on the call today are Caterpillar Group President Doug Oberhelman, and CFO- Dave Burritt.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc. Any use, recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the express written consent of Caterpillar Inc. is strictly prohibited. If youd like a printed copy of my prepared remarks, you can go to the SEC filings in the Investor section of our website where they are filed as an 8-K, theyre also available on the SECs website.
In addition, certain information well be discussing today is forward looking and involves material uncertainties that could impact expected results. A discussion of those uncertainties is included in the Safe Harbor statement included in a Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.
This morning we reported a great first quarter and announced an improvement in the profit outlook for the full-year.
The first quarter was an excellent start to the year, and compared with the first quarter a year ago :
 
 
It was a great quarter, but that doesnt mean we dont have work to do:
 
 
 
 
Lets turn to cash flow for a minute.
 
O.K. lets touch on the outlook before we move on to Q & A.
Were raising the profit outlook for 2006. We expect profit for the year to be in the range of $4.85 to $5.20 per share. Thats an increase of 20 cents per share at both ends of the range.
We have a positive view of the overall world economy, and for the industries we serve, and continue to expect sales and revenues of about $40 billion for the full year, up about 10% from 2005.
 
Inflation remains low in most countries and should help keep interest rates worldwide at relatively low levels, and should support continued growth in the world economy with overall world growth in 2006 similar to 2005.
 
We expect continued strength from most of the industries we serve notably, mining, road building and paving, infrastructure development, non-residential construction, and engines for petroleum, electric power, marine, and on-highway applications.
 
Overall, the fundamentals for the industries we serve look good. That said, we know there are a number of risks that face Caterpillar, and the economy as a whole.
 
 
 
Today we have a great quarter to talk about and celebrate tomorrow we have a lot of work to do because as good as the quarter was, we have plenty of room to improve our execution and were all about improvement through 6 Sigma.
OK, lets move to the Q&A portion of the call. In the interest of time and fairness to others, please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
If we could have the first question please.
 
 
 



