FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20071015084608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Page 1
 
 
Election of
Officer
On October 10, 2007, the Board elected Ms. Janie Copeland as the Chief Accounting Officer of the Company effective December 1, 2007.  Prior to her appointment, Ms. Copeland has been serving the Company since 2002 as the Corporate Financial Reporting Manager and was instrumental in Caterpillar's adoption of Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and increased reporting transparency.  Ms. Copeland joined the Company as an accountant in 1987.  Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Copeland gained several years of auditing experience with Price Waterhouse Coopers.  Also, while working in the Companys Corporate Accounting group, Ms. Copeland served in a wide variety of financial reporting and analysis positions, including serving as Controller for the Building Construction Products Division.  Ms. Copeland graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accountancy from the University of Illinois in 1984 and she is a Certified Public Accountant.
A press release announcing the election of Ms. Copeland was issued today by the Company and is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
    
Page 2

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
October 15, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEORIA, Ill. Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved the creation of a chief accounting officer (CAO) position.  Janie Copeland has been appointed CAO effective December 1, 2007.
Since 2002, Copeland has served as the corporate financial reporting manager for Caterpillars Global Finance & Strategic Support Division.  Copeland was instrumental in Caterpillar's adoption of Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and has been a leader of projects increasing reporting transparency.
The establishment of a CAO reporting to Caterpillars corporate controller will further strengthen the companys governance in the critical area of financial reporting, said David Burritt, Caterpillar chief financial officer and vice president of the Global Finance and Strategic Support Division. Equally important, it is in line with Caterpillars history of high integrity reporting.
Copeland joined Caterpillar as an accountant in 1987.  Previously, she was a senior auditor with Price Waterhouse.  She has worked in a wide variety of financial reporting and analysis positions at Caterpillar. Copeland graduated with a degree in accountancy from the University of Illinois in 1984.  She is a Certified Public Accountant and received the Elijah Watt Sells Award for her performance on the CPA exam.
For more than 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been making progress possible and driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2006 sales and revenues of $41.517 billion, Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. The company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services. More information is available at . 
http://www.cat.com/
Caterpillar Contact:
Jim Dugan
Corporate Public Affairs
309-494-4100 (o)
309-360-7311 (m)
dugan_jim@cat.com



