FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20080612124651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Page 1
 
Item  7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
(a)         Capacity Expansion and Restructuring Plans
 
On June 12, 2008, Caterpillar Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys capacity expansion and restructuring plans.  A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b)         Teleconference Advisory
 
The Company announced today that it will
conduct a
 real-time, listen-only teleconference
with
security analysts and institutional investors
that
will begin at
3
:00
p.m.
Central
t
ime on
Thursday
,
June 12
.
  The call will be to discuss the press release furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.1 and a second press release issued today announcing the Companys strategic alliance with Navistar International Corporation (Other OTC: NAVZ).
 
Teleconference and Webcast access
:
The
one-hour
conference call can be accessed by telephone from both domestic and international locations, with a listen-only entry code provided below:
Conference Call number:  877-216-8554 (domestic)
                                     
 
973-528-0009 (international)
 
Listen Only Entry Code:  5621
To access a telephone replay of this call shortly after the live event, please dial 800-332-6854 (for domestic callers) and 973-528-0005 (for international callers) and enter 7731 as the conference ID.  This telephone replay will be available for 90 days.
The call can also be accessed through http://www.CAT.com/IR.  Listeners should go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the live event to download and install any necessary audio software. The transcript from the conference call will be filed promptly via a Form 8-K with the SEC but no later than Friday, June 13, 2008 and available through .
http://www.CAT.com/SEC_Filings
For those unable to participate in the live broadcast, the replay will be available through http://www.CAT.com/IR shortly after the live event.  There is no charge to access the webcast.  Those without access to the Internet may request a fax of Caterpillars transcript by calling 800-228-7717 (U.S. and Canada) or 858-244-2080 (for all other regions).
 
Page 2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The furnishing of these materials is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the materials include material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available. In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
 
 
Page 3

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
June 12, 2008
Caterpillar contact:
Jim Dugan
Caterpillar
Corporate Public Affairs
Office 309-494-4100
Mobile 309- 360-7311
dugan_jim@cat.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEORIA, Ill.  Demonstrating confidence in its ability to compete globally from a strong U.S. manufacturing base, Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) announced today a multi-year $1 billion capacity expansion that will position key factories in Illinois and other areas to compete for the long term.  The investments will allow Caterpillar to meet continued demand and bolster its global leadership for machines used primarily in mining and large infrastructure applications.  In support of this capacity expansion, the company will invest more than $1 billion from 2008 through 2010 in five existing facilities in Illinois (East Peoria, Joliet, Decatur, Aurora and Mossville).
This is certainly very positive news for the Illinois communities where we operate as we invest today to strengthen our global leadership position in the industries we serve and to maintain our ability to profitably compete in the global economy, said Caterpillar Chairman and CEO Jim Owens.  This restructuring and capital investment in critical North American operations demonstrates our optimism about the global markets we serve and Caterpillars long-term commitment to our employees, our customers and our stockholders.
 
Page 1
Investing for Growth
The major highlights of Caterpillars planned $1 billion capital investment plan include the following:
Strategic Direction for on-highway trucks and engines
As previously announced, Caterpillar will not supply Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2010 compliant engines to truck and other on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).  Today, those engines are primarily produced in Mossville, Illinois, and Greenville, South Carolina, where existing capacity for on-highway engines is far greater than what will be needed in the future.  As a result of this strategic decision, Caterpillar is contemplating opening a new facility in a location to be determined where it would produce off-highway heavy-duty engines currently assembled in Mossville.
Restructuring for long-term competitiveness
The companys expansion plan also includes the following contemplated operational changes, which will be finalized after further study by Caterpillar:
 
Page 2
 
 
We anticipate these changes will create positive opportunities for the vast majority of our employees, said Sid Banwart, Caterpillar vice president with responsibility for the Human Services Division.  Consistent with Our Values In Action, if we have any employees who are displaced, we will work hard to support them with job reassignments, training, educational and other opportunities. Even positive changes like these can create questions for employees, and we want all of Team Caterpillar to understand that as these exciting plans proceed over the next several years, our goal is to minimize any negative impact these changes might have on our employees, Banwart added.
About Caterpillar
For more than 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been making progress possible and driving positive and sustainable change o
n every continent. With 2007 sales and revenues of $44.958 billion, Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. The company also is a leading services pr
o
vider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services.  More information is available at www.cat.com.
SAFE HARBOR
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as "will", "expect", "anticipate" or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions; currency exchange or interest rates; political stability; market acceptance of the company's products and services; significant changes in the competitive environment; epidemic diseases; changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the company's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on  May 2, 2008. This filing is available on our website at . We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
www.cat.com/secfilings
Page 3



