FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20090611150744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Page 1
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information shall not be deemed filed hereunder for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On June 10, 2009, Caterpillar Inc. held the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in Chicago, Illinois.  During the meeting, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James W. Owens, gave a presentation and took various questions from stockholders.  In response to a stockholder question regarding when company sales may return to previous levels, Mr. Owens stated that  I would put odds around 80 percent that in the next 5 years or so we would be back to over the $50 billion [sales] threshold.  Mr. Owens remarks were made in the context of reiterating the companys long-term sales goals pursuant to its Vision 2020 and noting the challenges faced in achieving those goals.
The furnishing of this information is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that this Form 8-K includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.  In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.
.
About Caterpillar Inc
For 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been building the worlds infrastructure and, in partnership with its worldwide dealer network, is driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2008 sales and revenues of $51.324 billion, Caterpillar is a technology leader and the worlds leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. The Company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services. More information is available at www.cat.com.
SAFE HARBOR
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as "will," would, "expect," "anticipate," should or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, (i) adverse change in general economic conditions; (ii) adverse change in the industries Caterpillar serves including construction, infrastructure, mining, energy, marine and electric power generation; (iii) Caterpillars ability to manage material, including steel, and freight costs; (iv) Caterpillars ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for its operations and manage its liquidity needs; (v) material adverse change in customers access to liquidity and capital; (vi) currency exchange or interest rates changes; (vii) political stability; (viii) market acceptance of the company's products and services; (ix) significant changes in the competitive environment; (x) epidemic diseases; (xi) severe change in weather conditions negatively impacting operations; (xii) changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and (xiii) other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in the company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 20, 2009. This filing is available on our website at www.cat.com/sec_filings. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Page 2
Page 3



