FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20091119090342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Page 1
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) is furnishing supplemental information concerning deliveries to users for its Machinery and Engines lines of business.  Caterpillar sells the majority of its machinery and engines to independently owned and operated dealers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to meet the demands of their customers, the end users.  Due to time delays between Caterpillars sales to dealers and dealers deliveries to end users, Caterpillar believes this information may help readers better understand Caterpillars business and the industries it serves.  This information is based on unaudited reports provided by Caterpillars independent dealers and is not subject to Caterpillars internal controls over financial reporting.  This information is furnished under this Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  All information provided is calculated in constant dollars.  Caterpillar does not undertake to update this information.
by marketing region for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year are:
Retail Sales of Machines
*EAME (Europe, Africa and Middle East)
*ROW (rest of the world - everything except North America)
by business sector for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year are:
Sales of Reciprocating & Turbine Engines to Retail Users & OEMs
 
 
Page 2
 
.
About Caterpillar Inc
For 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been building the worlds infrastructure and, in partnership with its worldwide dealer network, is driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2008 sales and revenues of $51.324 billion, Caterpillar is a technology leader and the worlds leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. The Company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services. More information is available at www.cat.com.
SAFE HARBOR
 
www.cat.com/sec_filings
Certain statements in this filing relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as "will," would, "expect," "anticipate," should or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, (i) adverse change in general economic conditions; (ii) adverse change in the industries Caterpillar serves including construction, infrastructure, mining, energy, marine and electric power generation; (iii) Caterpillars ability to manage material, including steel, and freight costs; (iv) Caterpillars ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for its operations and manage its liquidity needs; (v) material adverse change in customers access to liquidity and capital; (vi) currency exchange or interest rates changes; (vii) political stability; (viii) market acceptance of the company's products and services; (ix) significant changes in the competitive environment; (x) epidemic diseases; (xi) severe change in weather conditions negatively impacting operations; (xii) changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and (xiii) other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in Item 1A  Risk Factors in Part II of our Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on July 31, 2009, for the 2
nd
quarter 2009. The filing is available on our website at
. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
Page 3
 
 
Page 4



