FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20091215151302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
On December 9, 2009, the Board of Directors of Caterpillar Inc. (the "Company") adopted amendments to the Company's Bylaws effective December 9, 2009.  A description of the provisions changed by the amendments is as follows:
 
Article II, Section 1(d) and Section 2; Article VI, Section 1
Article II, Section 1(e) and Article II, Section 3(d)
Article V
Article VI, Section 2(a)
 
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete text of the amended and restated Bylaws, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated by reference herein.

 
EXHIBIT 3.2
Section 1. Registered Office.
 
The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Section 2. Other Offices.
 
The corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Section 1. Stockholder Meetings.
 
Section 2. Determination of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
 
To determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote, the board of directors may fix in advance a record date for each as provided in Article VI, Section 1 hereof.
Section 3. Voting.
 
 
 
Section 1. Election of Directors.
 
Section 2. Meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
Notice of all such regular meetings is hereby dispensed with.
Section 3. Action Without Meeting.
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.
Section 4. Compensation of Directors.
 
The directors may be paid such compensation for their services as the board shall from time to time determine. Directors who receive salaries as officers or employees of the corporation shall not receive additional compensation for their services as directors.
Section 5. Committees of the Board.
 
There shall be such committees of the board of directors each consisting of two or more directors with such authority, subject to applicable law, as a majority of the board shall by resolution determine. Committees of the board shall meet subject to the call of the chairman of each committee and shall prepare and file with the secretary minutes of their meetings. Unless a committee shall by resolution establish a different procedure, notice of the time and place of committee meetings shall be given by the chairman of the committee, or at his request by the chairman of the board or by the secretary or an assistant secretary. Such notice shall be given to each committee member personally or by mail, messenger, telephone or telegraph at his business or residence address at the times provided in subsection (b) of Section 2 of this Article for notice of special meetings of the board of directors. One-third of a committee but not less than two members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except as a committee by resolution may determine otherwise, the provisions of Section 3 and of subsections (c), (d) and (e) of Section 2 of this Article shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to meetings of board committees.
Section 1. Officers.
 
The officers of the corporation shall be a chairman of the board, who shall be the chief executive officer, one or more group presidents, one or more vice presidents (one of whom shall be designated the chief financial officer), a secretary and a treasurer, together with such other officers as the board of directors shall determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 2. Election and Tenure of Officers.
 
Officers shall be elected by the board of directors, shall hold office at the pleasure of the board, and shall be subject to removal at any time by the board. Vacancies in office may be filled by the board.
Section 3. Powers and Duties of Officers.
 
Each officer shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by an officer authorized so to do by the board.
Section 4. Compensation of Officers.
 
The compensation of officers shall be determined by the board of directors; provided that the board may delegate authority to determine the compensation of any assistant secretary or assistant treasurer, with power to redelegate.
The corporation shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by, and in the manner permissible under, the laws of the State of Delaware any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to an action or proceeding, whether criminal, civil, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a proceeding), by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate is or was a director or officer of the corporation or any predecessor of the corporation, or served any other enterprise as a director or officer at the request of the corporation or any predecessor of the corporation. The corporation shall pay or reimburse the actual and reasonable expenses (including attorneys fees) of such person incurred in defending any threatened or pending proceeding in advance of its final disposition if the corporation has received an undertaking by the person receiving such payment or reimbursement to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article V or otherwise.
The foregoing provisions of this Article V shall be deemed to be a contract between the corporation and each director and officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this bylaw is in effect, and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts.
The foregoing rights of indemnification and advancement of expenses shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any director or officer may be entitled apart from the provisions of this Article.
The board of directors in its discretion shall have power on behalf of the corporation to indemnify and advance expenses to any person, other than a director or officer, made a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was an employee of the corporation.
Section 1. Record Date.
 
Section 2. Stock Certificates.
 
Section 3. Corporate Seal.
 
The corporation shall have a corporate seal in such form as shall be prescribed and adopted by the board of directors.
Section 4. Construction and Definitions.
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws.
Section 5. Amendments.
 
Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, these bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed at any regular meeting of the stockholders (or at any special meeting thereof duly called for that purpose) by a majority vote of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting; provided that in the notice of such special meeting notice of such purpose shall be given. Subject to the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation and these bylaws, the board of directors may by majority vote of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present amend these bylaws, or enact such other bylaws as in their judgment may be advisable for the regulation of the conduct of the affairs of the corporation.



