FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20090915172112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Page 1
On September 9, pursuant to the previously disclosed Truck Business Relationship Agreement (the Truck Business Relationship Agreement), Navistar, Inc. (Navistar), a principal operating subsidiary of Navistar International Corporation (Navistar International), entered into a Joint Venture Operating Agreement (the Operating Agreement) with Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar).  The Operating Agreement governs the operations of  NC2 Global LLC (the Joint Venture), a joint venture formed by Caterpillar and Navistar for the purpose of developing, designing, testing, manufacturing, assembling, branding, marketing and selling, and distributing and providing product support for, heavy and certain medium duty trucks outside of North America and the Indian subcontinent (the Joint Venture Business).
The Operating Agreement is the Joint Ventures primary operating document and contains the understandings and agreements of the parties regarding the governance and operations of the Joint Venture Business.  The Joint Venture Business does not include the sale of vehicles to military customers.  The Joint Venture Business may be revised, in Caterpillars sole discretion, after six years following the execution of the Operating Agreement, to exit the medium duty cab over engine truck business.
Caterpillar and Navistar have agreed to provide the Joint Venture with certain products and services pursuant to the terms of one or more sales and services agreements.  Navistar may also require the Joint Venture to develop, design, test, manufacture, and assemble medium and heavy duty cab over engine trucks, and replacement parts therefor, to sell to Navistar for resale in North America pursuant to one or more sales and services agreements.  In the event that Navistar sources heavy duty cab over engine trucks from the Joint Venture for resale in North America, the market share of vocational heavy duty cab over engine trucks is equal to or greater than 10% of the total market share of vocational heavy duty trucks in North America or upon approval of the Joint Ventures Board of Directors, Caterpillar may require the Joint Venture to develop, design, test, manufacture, and assemble vocational heavy duty cab over engine trucks, and replacement parts therefor, to sell to Caterpillar for resale in North America pursuant to one or more sales and services agreements.
Under the Operating Agreement, each of Caterpillar and Navistar own 50% of the ownership interest in the Joint Venture.  Each of Caterpillar and Navistar have contributed $42 million to the Joint Venture as an initial capital contribution.  In addition, each of Caterpillar and Navistar are committed to provide the Joint Venture with up to an additional $90 million of required funding over the following three years.  Each year the Board of Directors of the Joint Venture must agree to an annual and five-year rolling business plan, which include additional three year funding commitments.
Pursuant to the Operating Agreement, the Joint Venture will have a Board of Directors consisting of six directors, with Caterpillar and Navistar each appointing three of the directors.  The Joint Venture will be managed day-to-day by a President, appointed by Navistar.  The President and Chief Financial Officer, which shall be appointed by Caterpillar, will each be appointed for a three year term.
The initial term of the Operating Agreement is 25 years, subject to five year extensions upon written agreement of Caterpillar and Navistar.  The Operating Agreement contains various termination provisions; however, the Joint Venture may not be voluntarily terminated by either Caterpillar or Navistar without mutual consent unless a material breach, a deadlock with respect to an annual or five-year rolling business plan (at least five years after execution of the Operating Agreement), a dilution of Caterpillars or Navistars ownership interest below 25% or a change of control of Caterpillar or Navistar International has occurred.
 
Page 2
Upon a change of control of Caterpillar or Navistar International, the party not undergoing a change of control can make a one time offer to purchase 100% of the ownership interest in the Joint Venture at a fixed price.  The member undergoing the change of control will then have the option of either accepting the offer or purchasing 100% of the ownership interest in the Joint Venture at such price.  Additionally, upon a material breach or dilution of Caterpillars or Navistars ownership interest below 25%, the non-defaulting party may choose to purchase 100% of the ownership interest in the Joint Venture at fair market value, as determined by an independent third party retained to value the Joint Venture.
Under the Operating Agreement, Navistar International, Navistar, Caterpillar and their affiliates are subject to various exclusivity and non-competition provisions.  Subject to certain exceptions, Navistar International, Navistar, Caterpillar and their affiliates are prohibited from engaging in business, either directly or indirectly, within the scope of the Joint Venture Business.
A copy of the Operating Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Operating Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Operating Agreement.
On September 10, 2009, Caterpillar and Navistar issued a press release announcing the execution of the Operating Agreement.  A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Page 3

 
 
EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the scope of the business of the Company shall be (a) developing, designing, testing, manufacturing, assembly, branding, marketing, selling (including providing purchase financing to customers), and distributing and providing product support for (including providing JV Truck Replacement Parts and service for) JV Trucks, in each case for all market segments (including Governmental COE Customers and Governmental Conventional Customers as set forth in ; , , that the scope of the business shall not include the sale of vehicles (including military vehicles, tactical vehicles, COTS vehicles with military features, COTS vehicles and related parts, and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles) to military customers (including sales through sales and resale agents, procurement agents, prime contractors, and subcontractors where such sales are for use exclusively by military customers), (b) all things incidental thereto or connected therewith to the extent permitted under the Act and not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement (the activities described in and , collectively, the ), and (c) to the extent approved by the Board upon Majority Consent such other business that a limited liability company organized in Delaware may lawfully conduct and that is not otherwise in conflict with the terms of this Agreement.  Except as set forth in , and of this Agreement or as approved by the Board upon Majority Consent, the Company shall sell JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts solely in the ROW.  It is the intent of each of the Parties that the Business be conducted in accordance with the timetables and schedules set forth in this Agreement (including the Annual Business Plans and the Rolling Business Plans of the Company, as such plans are described in ).  The Company shall conduct the Business in full compliance with all applicable laws, Caterpillars Worldwide Code of Conduct,Navistars Code of Conduct and the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, if there is any inconsistency between Caterpillars Worldwide Code of Conduct and Navistars Code of Conduct, the Board shall resolve such discrepancy.
Section 11.1.3
provided
however
clauses (a)
(b)
Business
Sections 2.3.7
2.3.8
10.1.12
Section 2.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
The Parties agree and acknowledge that, under certain circumstances, upon Majority Consent of the Board in accordance with , the Company may cause direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company to be organized under the laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction.  For purposes of this Agreement, the business and affairs of the Company shall be deemed to include the business and affairs of each such subsidiary, and any reference in this Agreement to the Company shall be deemed to include all of its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (unless the context explicitly requires a different interpretation).  The governing documents of each such subsidiary shall be drafted in such a manner so as to effectively provide that the business and affairs of such subsidiary shall be managed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement as if such business and affairs were the business and affairs of the Company.
Section 5.13.25
 
 
In determining the scope of the Business under and in preparing any Annual Business Plan or any Rolling Business Plan under , each of Caterpillar and Navistar shall cause its respective Representatives to use their commercially reasonable efforts to adapt the structure and manner in which the Company does business to take into account evolving legal, regulatory, and business considerations affecting the Company or either Member, including changes that are needed by either Member, so long as the costs of any such change are borne (a) solely by either Member, as applicable (in the case of a benefit to only such Member) or (b) proportionately by both Members (in the case of a benefit to both Members), and the aggregate economic interests of the Members are not altered as a result of such structure.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Parties shall cooperate in determining whether, in certain circumstances, the Company should arrange for separate and distinct legal entities to conduct (i) that portion of the Business relating to all or any part of developing, designing, testing, manufacturing, assembly, branding, marketing, selling, and distributing JV Trucks (on the one hand) and (ii) the provision of product support and other services relating to JV Trucks (on the other hand).
Section 2.1
Section 2.2
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
For the avoidance of doubt, a defaulting Members failure to fund a Capital Contribution Commitment or a Loan Commitment that is required pursuant to this Agreement shall not, in and of itself, constitute a Material Breach, and the non-defaulting Member shall not be entitled to terminate this Agreement in accordance with with respect to such failure to fund such particular Capital Contribution Commitment or Loan Commitment; , that the foregoing shall not prohibit the non-defaulting Member from exercising its rights under, as applicable, (i)  or of above, or (ii) the proviso in above.
Section 21.2.4
provided
clause (a)
clause (b)
Section 3.2.3.2.1
Section 3.2.3.2.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the consummation of an exercise of the Purchase Option pursuant to , if applicable, the defaulting Members Percentage Interest shall be adjusted to reflect such purchase, and the non-defaulting Members Percentage Interest shall be adjusted to reflect the deletion of the Substitute Contribution from the non-defaulting Members Capital Account as provided in .
Section 3.2.5
Section 3.2.5
 
 
 
 
Except as expressly set forth in the Act or this Agreement, the Members shall not have any vote or take any part in the control or management of the Business or have any authority or power to act for or on behalf of the Company in any manner whatsoever.
 
 
No Member shall be obligated or liable to the Company, any creditor of the Company, or any other Person, for any Liabilities or debts of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise, solely by reason of being a Member, except as specifically set forth herein or as otherwise agreed to in writing by such Member.  Except as required by law, no Member shall be liable to the Company, any other Member, any creditor of the Company, or any other Person for the repayment of amounts received from the Company.  The failure of the Company to observe any formalities or requirements relating to the exercise of its powers or management of its Business or affairs under this Agreement or the Act shall not be grounds for imposing personal liability on the Members or the Representatives for Liabilities or debts of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise, solely by reason of being a Member or Representative.
 
 
Except as provided in or , no Member shall have the right to withdraw or resign as a Member.  No Member shall take any voluntary action that would result in dissolution of the Company pursuant to the Act.
Section 19
21
 
 
Regular meetings of the Members may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be determined by the Members by Unanimous Consent.  The Company may, but shall not be required to, hold an annual meeting of the Members.  The President or any Representative, unless otherwise prescribed by law, may call special meetings of the Members for any purpose.  Unless otherwise determined by the Members by Unanimous Consent, all meetings of the Members shall be held at the Companys principal place of business.  Members may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Members by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment pursuant to which all Persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or by any other means permitted by the Act, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  Except as provided herein, written notice stating the place, day, and hour of a special meeting of the Members and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be delivered not less than ten (10) or more than sixty (60) calendar days before the date of a special meeting to each Member, subject to such shorter notice as an emergency situation shall reasonably dictate.  No actions other than those specified in the notice may be considered at a special meeting of the Members unless such consideration is approved by Unanimous Consent of the Members.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if all of the Members shall meet at any time and place and determine by Unanimous Consent to hold a meeting at such time and place, such meeting shall be valid without call or notice, and at such meeting any lawful action may be taken.  Accurate minutes of any meeting of the Members shall be taken and filed with the minute books or other records of the Company.  Promptly thereafter, the Secretary shall provide a copy of such minutes to the Members.
 
 
At all meetings of the Members, a Member may vote in person or by proxy executed in writing by the Member or by a duly authorized attorney-in-fact.  Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Company before or at the time of the meeting.
 
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Members may be taken without a meeting if the action is authorized or approved by a written consent describing the action taken, signed by all Members, and delivered to the Company for inclusion in the minute books or for filing with the Company records.  A written consent may be delivered by fax or other electronic means and there shall be no requirement for maintaining original executed counterparts in the minute books or other records of the Company.  Any such action by written consent shall be sent to each Member within five (5) calendar days after the consent is executed and filed in the minute books or with the Company records.
 
 
When any notice of a meeting of the Members is required to be given to any Member, a waiver thereof in writing signed by or on behalf of the Member entitled to such notice, whether before, at, or after such meeting, or such Members presence at such meeting, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, no decisions or actions involving the Company as enumerated below shall be made or taken, as applicable, without Unanimous Consent of the Members:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to , each Member and its Affiliates may engage in or possess an interest in all business ventures of every nature and description, independently or with others, even if such activities compete directly with the business of the other Member and its Affiliates, and neither the Company nor the other Member shall have any rights by virtue of this Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived from them.
Section 15
 
 
Upon liquidation as provided in , none of the Members shall be liable to the Company for any deficit in its Capital Account, nor shall such deficits be deemed assets of the Company.
Section 21
 
 
All property owned by the Company, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and wherever located, shall be deemed to be owned by the Company and no Member, individually, shall have any ownership of such property.  The Membership Interests shall constitute personal property.
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the Business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the exclusive direction of the Board.  The Board shall consist of eight (8) Representatives, four (4) of whom shall be appointed by Caterpillar (which appointees shall not be an officer or employee of the Company or an employee of Caterpillar or one of its Affiliates who is seconded to the Company),and four (4) of whom shall be appointed by Navistar (which appointees shall not be an officer or employee of the Company or an employee of Navistar or one of its Affiliates who is seconded to the Company).  Each Representative shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Member appointing such Representative for all purposes of this Agreement, and all actions taken by such Representative shall be binding on such Member.  Caterpillars initial appointees shall be George Harold Taylor, Jr., Douglas Ray Oberhelman, Bradley L. Halverson and Gary Albert Stroup.  Navistars initial appointees shall be Dee Kapur, Philip Christman, Matthew Foulston and Eric Tech.  Each of the Representatives shall be authorized to appoint a proxy to participate for him or her on all actions of the Board.  Any such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary at or prior to the meeting at which any action is taken pursuant to such proxy.
 
 
 
The initial chairman of the Board shall serve from the Effective Date through (but not including) the one (1) year anniversary of the Core ROW Country Launch Date.  Each subsequent chairman of the Board shall serve a twelve (12) month term.  The initial chairman of the Board shall be Douglas Ray Oberhelman.  The next chairman of the Board shall be, in Navistars discretion, one of the four (4) Representatives appointed by Navistar with respect to such period.  Caterpillar and Navistar shall thereafter rotate each twelve (12) month term in determining which of its respective four (4) Representatives shall serve as chairman of the Board.  The role of the chairman is to chair the meetings of the Board.
 
 
The affirmative vote of a majority of all of the Representatives comprising the Board (and not, for the avoidance of doubt, a majority only of the Representatives in attendance at a particular Board meeting) shall be the act of the Board, unless the vote of a greater proportion of the Representatives comprising the Board is otherwise required by this Agreement or the Act.
 
 
 
 
 
If a vacancy occurs as a result of the death, disability, resignation, or removal of a Representative, the Member appointing such Representative shall promptly, and in any event no later than the next regularly scheduled meeting, appoint a replacement Representative.
 
 
Unless authorized to do so by this Agreement or by the Board in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, no Representative shall have any power or authority to bind the Company in any way, to act as an agent of the Company, to pledge the Companys credit, or to render the Company liable for any purpose.
 
 
The Representatives shall not be entitled to reimbursement from the Company for costs and expenses incurred in connection with the management of the Company and in attending Board meetings.  Such expenses may be reimbursed by the Member appointing such Representatives, in the sole discretion of such Member.  The Representatives shall not receive any compensation or salaries from the Company for performing their duties.
 
 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Board by Majority Consent, regular meetings of the Board shall be held bi-monthly, and all such meetings shall be held at the Companys principal place of business or at such other place determined by the Board by Majority Consent.  Representatives may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment pursuant to which all Persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or by any other means permitted by the Act, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  Unless otherwise prescribed by law, special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by any Representative.  Written notice stating the place, day, and hour of a special meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be delivered not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time of a special meeting to each Representative, subject to such shorter notice as an emergency situation shall reasonably dictate.  No actions other than those specified in the notice may be considered at a special meeting of the Board unless such consideration is approved by Majority Consent of the Board.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if all of the Representatives shall meet at any time and place and determine by Majority Consent to hold a meeting at such time and place, such meeting shall be valid without call or notice, and at such meeting any lawful action may be taken.  Accurate minutes of any meeting of the Board shall be taken and filed with the minute books or other records of the Company.  Promptly thereafter, the Secretary shall provide a copy of such minutes to the Members.
 
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if the action is authorized or approved by a written consent describing the action taken, signed by all of the Representatives comprising the Board, and delivered to the Company for inclusion in the minute books or for filing with the Company records.  A written consent may be delivered by fax or other electronic means and there shall be no requirement for maintaining original executed counterparts in the minute books or other records of the Company.
 
 
When any notice of a meeting of the Board is required to be given to any Representative, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the Representative entitled to such notice, whether before, at, or after such meeting, or such Representatives presence at such meeting, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice.
 
 
By a resolution adopted with Majority Consent of the Board, the Board may designate such committees as the Board shall determine and shall prescribe the manner in which proceedings of such committees shall be conducted.  The provisions of this Agreement with respect to notice and conduct of meetings of the Board shall govern meetings of committees of the Board.  In resolutions adopted with Majority Consent of the Board authorizing any committee, the Board shall specify the authority of any such committee, subject to any limitations imposed by the Act.
 
 
The Liabilities and debts of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise, shall be solely the Liabilities and debts of the Company, and no Representative shall be obligated personally for any such Liability or debt of the Company solely by reason of being a Representative, except as otherwise required by law.  No Representatives shall owe a fiduciary duty to the Company or to a Member not appointing such Representative, except for the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing provided for under the Act.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as otherwise required by the Act or any other applicable law, in taking any action with respect to the Company (including determining whether to vote in favor of or against a matter requiring Majority Consent of the Board), each Representative is obligated to consider only the interests of the Member that appointed such Representative to the Board.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, no decisions or actions involving the Company enumerated below (other than any such decision that is already provided for in this Agreement or in any Related Agreement) shall be made or taken, as applicable, without Majority Consent of the Board:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the Representatives, officers, employees (including employees of Caterpillar, Navistar, or one of their Affiliates who are seconded to the Company), and other agents of the Company (each an ) against any Liabilities arising out of any claim, demand, action, suit, or proceeding related to the performance or non-performance of any act concerning the Business or the activities of the Company, if (a) such Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company (subject to the provisions of ), (b) such Indemnitees action or inaction does not constitute recklessness, and (c) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.  The termination of any action, suit, or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption (i) that such Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, (ii) that such Indemnitees action or inaction constitutes recklessness, or (iii) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, that such Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.  Any expenses covered by the foregoing indemnification shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit, or proceeding; , that it appears reasonably likely in the good faith judgment of the Board (as determined by Majority Consent) that such Indemnitee is or shall be entitled to indemnification, and provided further that such Indemnitee agrees to repay such amounts if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified.
Indemnitee
Section 5.12
nolo contendere
provided
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement (including and ), the initiation, prosecution, settlement, and defense of any lawsuit, arbitration, administrative proceeding, or other legal claim by a Member or any of its Affiliates against or involving the Company or any of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries or by the Company or any of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries against or involving a Member or any of its Affiliates shall be controlled solely by the Representatives appointed to the Board by the other Member.  Such Representatives shall have the right, to the exclusion of the other Representatives, (a) to manage and control any such lawsuit, arbitration, administrative proceeding, or other legal claim, and (b) to direct the officers and employees of the Company with respect to any such lawsuit, arbitration, administrative proceeding, or other legal claim.
Section 5.13.15
Section 5.13.16
 
 
 
 
Each officer of the Company shall be a natural person.  An officer need not be a resident of the State of Delaware.  No officer of the Company shall be a Representative.  Each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer () shall dedicate all of his business time and attention to the business and affairs of the Company.
CFO
 
 
The officers of the Company shall consist of a President, a CFO, a Secretary, and such other officers as determined by the Board by Majority Consent.  Subject to the selection process set forth in this with respect to the President, the CFO, and the Secretary, all officers shall be appointed by the Board by Majority Consent.  The initial President, and each subsequent President, shall be nominated by the Representatives appointed by Navistar.  The initial CFO and Secretary, and each subsequent CFO and Secretary, shall be nominated by the Representatives appointed by Caterpillar.  Each nominee for President, CFO and Secretary may be (a) an employee of Navistar, Caterpillar, or the Company, or (b) any other person.  The appointment of a nominee to any officer position of the Company (including any nominee for President, CFO or Secretary) shall be subject to the Majority Consent of the Board, it being understood that each Representative may withhold his approval in his discretion for the appointment of such nominee.  Except as otherwise determined by the Board by Majority Consent, each of the President, the CFO and the Secretary shall serve in such office for a term of three (3) years, or until his or her earlier death, disability, resignation, or, upon the request of the Member nominating such officer, removal by the Board by Majority Consent (it being understood that each Representative may withhold his approval in his discretion for the removal of such officer).  At the end of the three (3) year term of service of each of the President, CFO and Secretary, the Members Representatives responsible for selecting the nominee for such office shall designate as the nominee for such office, in their discretion, either the individual who then holds such office or another individual.  If any individuals term of service as an officer expires prior to the approval of the reinstatement of such individual to such office or the replacement of such individual with another individual for such office, in each case, by the Board by Majority Consent, all management vested in such office pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise by the Board shall be vested in the Board until such reinstatement or replacement is approved by the Board by Majority Consent.
Section 6.2
 
 
The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Company, and, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the President in general shall, subject to , manage the Business and affairs of the Company and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect.
Section 5
 
 
The CFO shall have the care and custody of all the funds and securities of the Company.  Subject to and as may be otherwise limited by the Board, the CFO may endorse checks, drafts, and other instruments for the payment of money for deposit or collection when necessary or proper and may deposit the same to the credit of the Company in such banks or depositories as the Board may designate from time to time, and the CFO may endorse all financial documents requiring endorsements for or on behalf of the Company.  The CFO may sign all receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Company.  The CFO shall render an account of his or her transactions to the Board or President as the Board or President shall require from time to time.  The CFO shall enter regularly in the books to be kept by him or her for that purpose, a full and adequate account of all monies received and paid by him or her on account of the Company.  The CFO shall also perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board and the President, such other duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time.
Section 5
 
 
Any Vice President nominated and appointed by the Board shall act subject to the direction and control of the President.  Subject to , each Vice President may execute and deliver any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, or other instruments that the Board or the President has authorized to be executed and delivered, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated to another officer of the Company by the Board or this Agreement, or where the execution and delivery thereof shall be required by law to be executed and delivered by another Person.  In general, each Vice President shall perform all duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board.  Each Vice President shall consult with the President in connection with the performance of his or her duties.
Section 5
 
 
The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Members and of the Board and record correctly the proceedings of such meetings and record all votes in a minute book suitable for such purposes.  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the Members and of the Board.  The Secretary shall attest with his or her signature all deeds, conveyances, or other instruments requiring the seal of the Company.  The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal, if any, of the Company.  The Secretary shall also perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, such other duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time.
 
 
Any Treasurer designated and appointed by the Board shall be subject to the direction of the CFO and shall assist the CFO in the performance of his or her duties.  At the direction of the CFO or in the event of his or her absence or disability, the Treasurer shall perform the duties of the CFO.  The Treasurer shall have custody of the Company funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Company and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such banks or depositories as may be designated by the CFO or the Board.  The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the President, the CFO or the Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board at its regular meetings or when the Board so requires, an account of all of the Treasurers transactions and of the financial condition of the Company.  The Treasurer shall also perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the CFO or the Board.
 
 
In general, any other officer nominated and appointed by the Board and not otherwise described in through shall perform all duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board and shall be subject to the direction and control of the President in connection with the performance of his or her duties.
Sections 6.3
6.7
 
 
The salaries or other compensation of each officer of the Company who is an employee of the Company (and not an employee of Caterpillar, Navistar, or one of their Affiliates who is seconded to the Company) shall be fixed from time to time by the Board, upon Majority Consent, as part of the Annual Business Plan.  The officers of the Company shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement from the Company of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the course of the performance of their duties.
 
 
 
The initial General Counsel, and each subsequent General Counsel, shall be appointed by the Board by Majority Consent, it being understood that each Representative may withhold his approval in his discretion for any candidate for such position.  The General Counsel may be an employee of Navistar, Caterpillar or the Company.  The initial General Counsel, and each subsequent General Counsel, may be removed for cause by the Representatives appointed by either Member, in which case the Board and the President shall cause the General Counsel to be promptly removed.  If the General Counsel is an employee of Navistar or Caterpillar, the Board will establish guidelines with respect to communications with legal counsel (whether outside or in-house) for the Members.
 
 
 
The Company shall be staffed with personnel in accordance with the Initial Staffing Plan agreed to by the Members (the ), which sets forth the name and job title of each salaried or management seconded personnel of the Company.  All subsequent staffing plans for the Company (each a ) shall be incorporated into the Annual Business Plan and the Rolling Business Plan of the Company and shall include (i) each salaried or management direct employee of the Company, (ii) each salaried or management seconded personnel of the Company, and (iii) the approximate number of hourly direct employees of the Company.
Initial Staffing Plan
Subsequent Staffing Plan
 
 
Caterpillar and Navistar shall second, or cause their respective Affiliates to second, to the Company such salaried and management personnel in accordance with the Initial Staffing Plan and all Subsequent Staffing Plans and pursuant to the terms of the applicable Employee Secondment Agreement between the Company (on the one hand) and each of Caterpillar or its Affiliates and Navistar or its Affiliates (on the other hand).  All decisions relating to the identification of any Member employee to be seconded to the Company and the significant terms of such secondment arrangement (including the date on which such employees secondment to the Company commences and the duration of such secondment period), to the extent not already set forth in the Initial Staffing Plan or a Subsequent Staffing Plan, or in the applicable Employee Secondment Agreement, shall be determined by the Board by Majority Consent.
 
 
The Company shall hire such employees in accordance with a Subsequent Staffing Plan, as may be amended by the Board by Majority Consent.  No current employees of either Member shall become direct employees of the Company on the Effective Date.  All decisions relating to the hiring and employment terms of the President or any Company employee who reports directly to the President or whose annual base salary exceeds $150,000, to the extent not set forth in a Subsequent Staffing Plan, shall be determined by the Board by Majority Consent.  The Board, by Majority Consent, shall develop rules and regulations pertaining to its internal affairs and operations and the conduct of employees that shall be compatible with those of Caterpillar and Navistar, and which rules and regulations shall also apply to the seconded personnel.  From and after the commencement of the secondment period provided for in each Employee Secondment Agreement, if the Company advertises any job opening that an employee of Caterpillar or Navistar voluntarily applies for and fills, then upon filling such job opening, such employee shall cease being an employee of Caterpillar or Navistar (as applicable) and shall become a Company employee (it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that any employee transfers described in this sentence shall be separate and distinct from the secondment arrangement described in ).
Section 7.2
 
 
The Board shall, upon Majority Consent, develop and implement the initial compensation plans applicable to Company employees and the initial incentive compensation plans applicable to Company employees and Company seconded personnel.  All subsequent compensation plans for the Company shall be incorporated into the Annual Business Plan and the Rolling Business Plan of the Company.  The compensation plans and the incentive compensation plans for the Company employees shall be designed to focus Company employees on achieving the business objectives of the Company.  The incentive compensation plans for the Company seconded personnel shall be designed to focus each seconded individual on achieving both the business objectives of such individuals employer (i.e., Caterpillar or Navistar, as applicable) and the business objectives of the Company.
 
 
The Members agree to allocate certain initial Company management positions in accordance with and the Initial Staffing Plan.  Subject to , for subsequent appointments, the President shall nominate replacements for these positions due to death, disability, resignation, retirement, or termination, without regard to Member alignments, which nominations shall be subject to the approval of the Board by Majority Consent.
Section 6.2
Section 6.2
 
 
Caterpillar and Navistar shall work to minimize the influence of third parties in the Company work force.  Neither Caterpillar nor Navistar shall agree to any union agreement provisions that limit the ability of either Member or the Company to operate independently.  Caterpillar and Navistar shall work together to coordinate all communication with unions that are related to the formation of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Member shall provide the Company with certain products and services pursuant to the terms of one or more sales agreements and service agreements.  Certain of such agreements are being entered into by the Members and the Company simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement pursuant to , and certain of such agreements shall be entered into by the Members and the Company following the Effective Date as and when approved by the Board by Majority Consent.  All such agreements shall follow the general principles set forth in .
Section 1.6
Section 8.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JV Truck Models shall include all of Navistars models for Medium Duty Trucks and Heavy Duty Trucks set forth in the Initial Rolling Business Plan.  JV Truck Models may also include (a) any and all of Navistars models for Medium Duty Trucks and Heavy Duty Trucks existing as of the Effective Date (irrespective of where in the world such models are sold by Navistar or any of its Affiliates) and, to the extent not included in , (b) any model for Medium Duty Trucks or Heavy Duty Trucks developed by Navistar or the Company after the Effective Date, and (c) any truck model sold by Navistar or any of its Affiliates to Caterpillar or any of its Affiliates in the U.S., Canada or Mexico under the North American Severe Service Truck Sales Agreement, in each of , and as approved by the Board by Majority Consent.
clause (a)
clauses (a)
(b)
(c)
 
 
 
 
 
 
At any time following the Effective Date, upon the determination of the Board by Majority Consent, the Company may establish a JV Truck Assembly Facility for the manufacture or assembly of JV Truck Models.  The Company, upon the determination of the Board by Majority Consent, may establish a separate direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary in each country in which the Company intends to manufacture or assemble JV Trucks.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements and except as otherwise provided herein, including , during the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending upon the occurrence of the Triggering Event, neither Member nor its respective 5% Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, sell in North America any Medium Duty Trucks or Heavy Duty Trucks, or truck kits (including SKD's and CKD's) therefor,to any Person (whether to a dealer, distributor, OEM, end user or other Person) if such Member or its 5% Affiliate reasonably expects any such truck or kit will be used in the ROW.  For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, the Members agree that any such truck having non-North American specifications shall be presumed to be sold for use in the ROW.
Section 15.3
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall be accountable for all JV Truck Replacement Parts and shall manage the JV Truck Replacement Parts business according to the following general principles:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
The JV Truck Replacement Parts business shall be managed by the Companys Parts and Service Manager, who shall report to the President.  The Companys Parts and Service Manager shall have the following parts and product support responsibilities, , that (a) as applicable, such responsibilities shall be subject to each Members brand requirements, and (b) the Company, with the Majority Consent of the Board, may engage Caterpillar or Navistar to perform any or all of such responsibilities pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services: (i) establishing service standards, including time allowed for providing parts and product support; (ii) pricing of JV Truck Replacement Parts for JV Dealers; (iii) developing parts business plans (including profit and loss); (iv) providing forecasted JV Truck Replacement Parts requirements; (v) managing JV Truck Replacement Parts and product support related needs associated with the introduction of new JV Trucks models; (vi) providing parts stock, service tooling, technical information, suggested parts stocking list, training, and related matters; (vii) acquiring parts distribution and logistics services; (viii) providing critical technical marketing support (including application and installation) and field service support (including service engineering) functions for both Caterpillar Truck Models and Navistar Truck Models; and (ix) acquiring parts and service publications (parts books, service manuals, operation and maintenance manuals, SIS Web, and related documents) for both Caterpillar Truck Models and Navistar Truck Models, per brand requirements.
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall consider Caterpillars Remanufacturing Division as its lead remanufacturing provider (i.e., preferred source of remanufactured products and services) and shall invite Caterpillar to bid on remanufacturing services and product supply on terms to be negotiated by the Sourcing Council and Caterpillar on an arms length basis.  Navistar and the Company shall grant, and shall cause each of their Affiliates to grant, to the Person retained by the Company to provide remanufacturing services (and any Affiliates or subcontractors of such entity) a nonexclusive, royalty-free license under any Intellectual Property owned prior to, on or after the Effective Date by Navistar or the Company, or any of their Affiliates, or to which Navistar or the Company, or any of their Affiliates, prior to, on or after the Effective Date holds rights to for the purpose of providing or arranging to be provided remanufactured products or remanufacturing services to the Company.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Master Plan of Cooperation for Remanufacturing Services, dated August 24, 2006, between Navistar and Caterpillar (the ), the Master Reman Supply Agreement and Reman Product Development Agreement (as defined in the MPC) shall not be deemed to be superseded or otherwise amended by this Agreement.
MPC
 
 
In the event of any shortage in the supply of JV Truck Replacement Parts, the Company shall determine the allocation of the available supply, in accordance with the following order of priority:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether and when to put particular JV Truck Replacement Parts on allocation or remove such JV Truck Replacement Parts from allocation shall be decided by the Company.
 
 
The Company shall have access to each Members inventory as a source of JV Truck Components and JV Truck Replacement Parts.  If either Member is on allocation with respect to JV Truck Components or JV Truck Replacement Parts, the Company shall have priority according to such Members allocation guidelines, as agreed to by the Members.  Each Member may amend, modify or revise such guidelines and such amended, modified or revised guidelines shall replace any previous version of the applicable guidelines; , , that Unanimous Consent of the Members shall be required for a Member to amend, modify or revise such guidelines to the extent such amendment, modification or revision adversely affects the Companys priority under such allocation guidelines.
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
In the event that the Triggering Member makes any such sales of commercial vehicles in the ROW through such a JV Dealer, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the non-Triggering Member and its Affiliates may, following notice to and discussion by the Board (but without a requirement for Board approval), in their sole discretion, sell such commercial vehicles through any JV Dealer that (x) is Affiliated with one of Triggering Members dealers or (y) sells the Triggering Members brand of JV Trucks subject to the following:
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In each ROW country in which the Company sells JV Trucks or JV Truck Replacement Parts, the Company and the JV Dealers in such country may receive (pursuant to the terms of the Master Terms for Purchased Services) traditional marketing, sales, pricing, administrative, and traditional dealer relations and support services in connection with the sale of the JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts in such country, in each case, from a Member selected by the Board by Majority Consent.  The Board shall make such selection for each such service based on the Members comparative level of expertise with respect to such service.  To enable the applicable Member to provide such services, the Company shall provide, at no charge to such Member, technical marketing support (e.g., application and installation) and application engineering support to such Member for the applicable JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts at such levels agreed upon by the Board by Majority Consent.
 
 
The Company shall perform, or shall retain one or both of the Members or a third party to perform (in each case, at prices that are negotiated by such Person and the Company), the following product support functions (collectively, the ) in support of the Companys branding strategy, distribution channels, and brand requirements with respect to each Navistar Truck Model and each Caterpillar Truck Model:
Product Support Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In evaluating financing options for the Company and its sales, Caterpillar Financial shall be evaluated as the preferred source of working capital financing for the Company and all wholesale and retail sales financing of JV Trucks (both Caterpillar Truck Models and Navistar Truck Models) by the Company.  If the Company and Caterpillar Financial agree to have Caterpillar Financial provide financing services in one or more ROW countries, or, if Caterpillar Financial provides financing services to a JV Dealer in an ROW country, Caterpillar Financial shall make financing services similar to those offered to such JV Dealer available to all JV Dealers in such ROW country, including any JV Dealers selling Navistar Truck Models (it being understood that the particular pricing for such services offered by Caterpillar Financial to any given JV Dealer may differ from the pricing offered by Caterpillar Financial to a Caterpillar dealer or to another JV Dealer based on the creditworthiness and other objective characteristics of such dealers customarily utilized in evaluating the extension and pricing of credit).  Further evaluation of the Companys marketing strategy and associated costs and revenues is required before Caterpillar Financial participation can be evaluated and understood.
 
 
    
 
Consistent with applicable law, the Company shall establish requirements for JV Dealers to become certified service providers.  Caterpillar and Navistar shall assist the Company with the determination of certification requirements pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services.  To the extent consistent with applicable law, JV Dealers shall be required to participate in certified service training programs as a precondition to selling, and being certified as a warranty and service provider for, JV Trucks.
 
 
The Company shall have responsibility for training JV Dealers and their respective service providers; , , that the Company may utilize Navistar and Caterpillar to provide JV Dealers with appropriate training pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services (e.g., Navistar may provide truck related sales and service training to JV Dealers and Caterpillar may provide powertrain sales and service training to JV Dealers).
provided
however
 
 
Caterpillar and Navistar shall, pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services, jointly assist the Company with the determination of all truck service campaigns and guidelines for repair, subject to appropriate Caterpillar and Navistar policies.  The Company may engage Caterpillar or Navistar, as appropriate, pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services, to administer such service campaigns or guidelines for repair (e.g., supplier recovery, distribution logistics, etc.); , , that the Company shall be responsible for the costs of such service campaigns or guidelines for repair.
provided
however
 
 
The Company shall be responsible for publishing and distributing appropriate service publications and technical and tooling information.  Navistar and Caterpillar shall, for a fee and pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services, jointly assist the Company with the preparation of such publications and information.  The portion of such publications and information pertaining to (a) Caterpillar Truck Models shall conform with the current Caterpillar Brand guidelines, and (b) Navistar Truck Models shall conform with the current Navistar Brand guidelines, in each case to the fullest extent possible.
 
 
 
 
The Company shall issue Caterpillar Brand or Navistar Brand warranties (as applicable) for JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts sold or distributed by the Company and shall be liable for truck and service parts claims made thereunder.  Warranties shall be JV Truck-brand specific to allow for differentiation between claims attributable to Caterpillar Truck Models and Navistar Truck Models.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the extent the costs for Goodwill Policy are reflected in the Annual Business Plan, the Company shall abide by the Goodwill Policy of Caterpillar for Caterpillar Truck Models and the Goodwill Policy of Navistar for Navistar Truck Models, which Goodwill Policies shall compensate customers for certain non-warranty servicing of JV Trucks.  The Goodwill Policy for Caterpillar Truck Models shall be a differentiating factor compared to the Goodwill Policy for Navistar Truck Models, and the Company sales prices pertaining to Caterpillar Truck Models and Navistar Truck Models shall reflect this differentiating factor.  Caterpillar and Navistar, when acting on behalf of the Company pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services, shall cause their respective sales and service personnel for JV Trucks to abide by the applicable Goodwill Policy.  The Company shall bear the costs and expenses associated with the Goodwill Policies; , , that each Member shall be responsible for all expenses arising from the Goodwill Policy of such Members JV Truck models incurred by the Company in excess of the relevant, accrued, budgeted amount set forth in the Annual Business Plan.
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All extended warranty or service coverage () with respect to JV Trucks shall be offered through a designated ESC service provider (which may be a Member) and sold pursuant to the following provisions: (a) the Company shall select any ESC provider to be engaged; (b) the Company shall negotiate and approve all ESC terms and conditions to develop a market competitive ESC package with input from the Members; and (c) the Members may, as a service to the Company pursuant to the Master Terms for Purchased Services, provide for purchasing ESC from the designated ESC provider at market-based prices.
ESC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, subject to the terms of the Intellectual Property License Agreements referenced in , all Background Intellectual Property of a Member shall remain the property solely of such Member.
Section 14.1
 
 
Except as otherwise agreed by the Members, the Company (or an Affiliate designated by the Company) shall own any and all Intellectual Property that is developed by the Company or by a Member retained for such purpose on the Companys behalf.  The Company shall grant (or shall cause the applicable Affiliates of the Company to grant) each Member a royalty-bearing license to utilize the Intellectual Property owned by the Company or its Affiliates, subject to , pursuant to the applicable Royalty-Bearing IP License Agreement.
Section 15
 
 
The Company shall determine the extent to which it conducts the research and development and Intellectual Property activities set forth in the Annual Business Plan and the Rolling Business Plan with internal resources or by retaining one or both Members or a third party to provide product development services on a contract basis (in the case of the Members, pursuant to the applicable Master Development Services Agreement), and in such event, Navistar shall be evaluated as the preferred source of such product development services.
 
 
If any activity in connection with the conduct of the Business is alleged by a third party to infringe a third partys Intellectual Property rights, the Party becoming aware of such allegation shall promptly notify the other Parties thereof in writing, reasonably detailing the claim.
 
 
The provisions in this shall apply to any Intellectual Property of the Company (a) that is distributed to both Members as joint owners pursuant to , such provisions to take effect from and after the date of such distribution, or (b) joint ownership of which is distributed to the Seller Member and retained by the Company pursuant to , such provisions to take effect simultaneously with the closing of the sale and purchase of the Membership Interest pursuant to the Buy-Out Interest Option or pursuant to the Buy/Sell Option (as provided in ).  For purposes of this , such Intellectual Property shall be referred to as the , and each of the two joint owners of the Jointly Owned Intellectual Property shall be referred to as a .
Section 14.6
Section 21.5.1
Section 21.6.5
Section 21.6.4
Section 14.6
Jointly Owned Intellectual Property
Joint Owner
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any statutes, rules or regulations of any ROW country to the contrary, each Joint Owner shall have the right to license any Jointly Owned Intellectual Property for use anywhere in the ROW to any Person (including any Affiliate) without the consent of the other Joint Owner; , , that (a) any such license to a Person that is not an Affiliate of such Joint Owner shall be in exchange for a commercially reasonable royalty to be paid by the licensee, and (b) the Joint Owner licensor shall be required to account to and pay over to, promptly upon receipt, the other Joint Owner fifty percent (50%) of any such royalty consideration actually received by such Joint Owner licensor.  For the avoidance of doubt, each Joint Owner shall have the right to license any Jointly Owned Intellectual Property for use anywhere in the ROW to any Affiliate of such Joint Owner on a royalty-free basis.
provided
however
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements and except as otherwise provided herein, during the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending upon the occurrence of the Triggering Event, neither Member nor its respective 5% Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, (a) engage in, or own any ownership interest equal to or greater than five percent (5%) in, any business substantially similar to or in competition with the Business or any part thereof, in each case, anywhere in the ROW, or (b) grant any license or sublicense of Intellectual Property of Caterpillar, Navistar, the Company or their respective 5% Affiliates to any person for any use within the scope of the Business anywhere in the ROW, except in each case as otherwise agreed to in writing by both Members.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements and except as otherwise provided herein, neither Member nor its respective 5% Affiliates shall, independent of the Company, market or sell in the ROW any JV Truck Replacement Parts (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Will-Fit Parts) in connection with Medium Duty Trucks or Heavy Duty Trucks.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Member nor any of its 5% Affiliates shall be prohibited from licensing or sublicensing any of the Intellectual Property of such Member or any of its 5% Affiliates to any Person for purposes of settling a bona fide Intellectual Property dispute.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change in Control of either Member after the date hereof by a Person that is a competitor of any or all of the Business, the non-competition provisions and the exclusivity provisions of this Agreement, including and and this , shall cease upon and be of no further force or effect following such Change in Control.
Sections 9.5
11.1
Section 15.1
 
 
Without the Majority Consent of the Board, and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, neither Member shall,and each Member shall cause its respective 5% Affiliates not to, enter into any contract that would restrict the activities of the Company contemplated by this Agreement, including (a) any contract for the purchase of JV Truck Components or JV Truck Replacement Parts that would restrict the activities of the Company contemplated by this Agreement or (b) any contract pursuant to which such Member or 5% Affiliate incurs indebtedness for borrowed money or becomes a guarantor or surety or pledged its credit for or otherwise becomes responsible with respect to any undertaking of another Person that would restrict the activities of the Company contemplated by this Agreement, including the Company becoming a Restricted Subsidiary as defined in the Credit Agreement, dated as of January 19, 2007, as may be amended from time to time, among Navistar International Corporation, as Borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors Party thereto, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as Syndication Agent, and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents (the ) or any similar agreement or arrangement; , , that no amendment to the Credit Agreement or any similar agreement or arrangement will restrict the activities of the Company contemplated by this Agreement; and provided further that nothing shall prohibit the Company from becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of Navistar in the event Navistars Percentage Interest increases beyond fifty percent (50%) pursuant to , nor impact Navistars obligations under the Credit Agreement or any similar agreement or arrangement as a result thereof.
 
Credit Agreement
provided
however
Article 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the acquisition by a Member or its 5% Affiliates of the publicly-traded equity securities or debt securities of any Person that competes with the Business shall be permitted to the extent that (a) such acquisition does not result, directly or indirectly, in the ownership by such Member or its 5% Affiliates of five percent (5%) or more of any class of publicly-traded equity securities or debt securities of such Person, and (b) the investment in such Person held by such Member is purely passive, and such Member has no governance or control rights in such Person (including any right to appoint any member of the board of such Person, the right to appoint any officer of such Person, or the right to veto any significant decision of such Person) other than the right to cast votes (on a one share, one vote basis) with respect to the publicly traded equity securities or debt securities of such Person held by such Member.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if a Member or any of its 5% Affiliates desires to acquire a business or operation of any Person that competes with the Business, whether through the purchase of stock or other voting securities, merger, consolidation, or other similar corporate transformation, or through the purchase of assets (a ), and the operation of the business acquired by reason of the Member Acquisition is not otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Agreement, such Member may make the Member Acquisition so long as, no later than the consummation of the Member Acquisition, such Member sends the Company a written offer to sell to the Company that portion of the business acquired through the Member Acquisition that competes with the Business (the ).  For purposes of this , all decisions of the Company shall be made by the other Members Representatives (acting and deciding on behalf of the Company).  If the Company desires to pursue such offer, the Company must so notify such Member in writing no later than twenty (20) calendar days after receiving such written offer.  If the Company submits such written notice to such Member in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, the Company and such Member shall attempt in good faith to agree upon, no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the Company submits such written notice to such Member, (a) those particular assets, liabilities and operations of the business acquired through the Member Acquisition that constitute the Competing Operations, and (b) a purchase price for the Competing Operations.  If the Company and such Member agree in writing upon the items referenced in the immediately preceding sentence within such twenty (20) calendar day period, the Company shall be deemed to have accepted such offer on the date such agreement is reached.  If the Company and such Member fail to so agree upon such items within such twenty (20) calendar day period, the Company and such Member shall seek to agree upon and retain an Independent Valuation Firm pursuant to the selection procedures set forth in to (i) identify those particular assets, liabilities and operations of the business acquired through the Member Acquisition that constitute the Competing Operations, and (ii) determine a purchase price that is equal to the Fair Market Value of the Competing Operations taking into account, among other factors that are relevant to the Independent Valuation Firms determination of such Fair Market Value, the purchase price of the Member Acquisition.  The decision of the Independent Valuation Firm shall be final and binding on, and nonappealable by, the Company and such Member.  The Independent Valuation Firm shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator.  The fees and expenses of the Independent Valuation Firm shall be paid one half by each Member (and not, for the avoidance of doubt, one half by the Company and such Member).  No later than thirty (30) calendar days after the Company and such Member receive written notice from the Independent Valuation Firm setting forth its determination of the items referenced in and above, the Company must send a written notice to such Member indicating if the Company desires to accept such offer at the purchase price stipulated by the Independent Valuation Firm.  If the Company decides to accept such offer, either at the purchase price that is agreed upon by the Company and such Member or at the purchase price determined by the Independent Valuation Firm, the sale of the Competing Operations by such Member to the Company shall be consummated no later than forty-five (45) calendar days after the date on which the Company is deemed to have accepted such offer; , that the closing shall in no event occur earlier than three (3) Business Days after receipt of all approvals required from, and expiration of all waiting periods (including waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act) imposed by, any governmental authorities in connection with the purchase and sale.  If the Company decides not to accept such offer, then (A) if the Competing Operations did not generate greater than $300,000,000 in revenues during the calendar year preceding the year in which the Member Acquisition was consummated, then such Member shall be permitted to retain, own, and operate the Competing Operations (, that the Competing Operations shall not be permitted to use, and shall not be provided access to, any Intellectual Property of the Company), and (B) if the Competing Operations generated greater than $300,000,000 in revenues during the calendar year preceding the year in which the Member Acquisition was consummated, then such Member shall divest the Competing Operations no later than six (6) months after the date on which such Member receives notice that the Company decided to not accept such offer.  If such Member retains the Competing Operations in accordance with of the immediately preceding sentence and continues to own and operate such Competing Operations on the third (3) anniversary of the consummation of the Member Acquisition, the Company shall have the option (but not the obligation) to purchase the Competing Operations from such Member.  If the Company desires to pursue such option, the Company must so notify such Member in writing no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the third (3) anniversary of the consummation of the Member Acquisition.  The terms of such option shall be the same as the terms of the first option set forth above in this .
Member Acquisition
Competing Operations
Section 15.5
Section 23.16
clauses (i)
(ii)
provided
provided
clause (A)
rd
rd
Section 15.5
 
 
The Members agree and acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this are reasonable in scope and duration in light of the nature, size and location of the Business.  The Members further agree and acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this are necessary to protect each Members significant investment in the Business, including its goodwill.  The Members are of equal bargaining power.  It is the desire and intent of the Members that the provisions of this be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under applicable law.  If all or part of this is held invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced by any law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.  If any part of this is held to be excessively broad as to duration, scope, activity, or subject, such part shall be construed by limiting and reducing it so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law.
Section 15
Section 15
Section 15
Section 15
Section 15
 
 
 
 
Navistar shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless each Company Indemnified Person and each Caterpillar Indemnified Person against any and all claims made by any dealer or distributor of Navistar or its Affiliates, in such Persons capacity as a dealer or distributor of Navistar or its Affiliates, against any Company Indemnified Person or Caterpillar Indemnified Person for lost revenues, lost profits, injunctive relief, or any other damages arising from business activities related to this Agreement (and the Related Agreements); except for claims for product liability related to the safety or performance of a particular product, the defense and indemnity of which, if any, shall be handled pursuant to the terms of the applicable Related Agreements or otherwise shall be negotiated by the relevant parties on a case-by-case basis.  Caterpillar shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless each Company Indemnified Person and each Navistar Indemnified Person against any and all claims made by any dealer or distributor of Caterpillar or its Affiliates, in such Persons capacity as a dealer or distributor of Caterpillar or its Affiliates, against any Company Indemnified Person or Navistar Indemnified Person for lost revenues, lost profits, injunctive relief, or any other damages arising from business activities related to this Agreement (and the Related Agreements); except for claims for product liability related to the safety or performance of a particular product, the defense and indemnity of which, if any, shall be handled pursuant to the terms of the applicable Related Agreements or otherwise shall be negotiated by the relevant parties on a case-by-case basis.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall maintain in effect during the term of this Agreement and for a period of no less than five (5) years after the occurrence of the Triggering Event, appropriate liability (including product liability) insurance policies with products and completed operations coverage with an internationally recognized carrier.  The Companys purchase of any such liability insurance policy shall be subject to the approval of the Board by Majority Consent.  Such policies shall require the Company to receive not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior written notice of any modification or cancellation of such policies.
 
 
 
 
As of the Effective Date, each Member hereby represents and warrants to the Company and to the other Member that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained in shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement.
Section 17.1
 
 
 
 
A separate  shall be maintained for each Member under for the full term of this Agreement in accordance with the requirements of Section 704(b) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.  A Members Capital Account shall be determined as provided in .
Capital Account
Section 18.2
Section 18.2
 
 
Pursuant to the basic rules of Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Treasury Regulations, the balance of the Capital Account of each Member shall be:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall,no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the end of each fiscal half year (unless the Board determines by Majority Consent that a distribution shall be at another time), distribute to the Members any cash of the Company not necessary for its financial obligations or working capital needs or for funding its then current Annual Business Plan and its then current Rolling Business Plan, unless the Board determines otherwise by Majority Consent.  Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Agreement or as otherwise determined by the Board by Majority Consent, each distribution of cash by the Company shall be made to the Members in accordance with the provisions of this .
 
Section 18.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solely for the purpose of allocating excess Nonrecourse Liabilities of the Company among the Members in connection with the determination of the Members adjusted tax bases in their respective Membership Interests in accordance with Section 752 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations from time to time promulgated thereunder, the Members shall allocate excess Nonrecourse Liabilities in the manner determined by the Members.
 
 
No election shall be made by the Company to be excluded from the application of the provisions of Subchapter K of the Code, or to be treated as an association taxable as a corporation, and all Members agree to treat the Company as a partnership for all federal, state, and local income tax purposes unless otherwise specifically required by law.
 
 
The Company shall prepare at the expense of the Company and shall, no later than April 30of each Fiscal Year, provide to each Member a draft of the Companys federal and state income tax returns for the Companys prior Fiscal Year for (a) review and comment by each Member, and (b) approval by each Member.  The Members (i) agree to prepare their federal and state income tax returns in a manner consistent with the Companys federal and state income tax returns approved by both Members, and (ii) shall agree on the establishment or material modification of tax reporting positions, including making, revoking or declining to make tax elections in connection with the preparation and filing of the Companys or any subsidiarys federal, state, local or applicable foreign tax returns.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall maintain true and accurate business and accounting records of all of its operations in accordance with GAAP, and, to the extent applicable, the specific, reasonable requirements of the Members.  Each Member, and its duly authorized representatives, shall have the right, at any time, to inspect, copy, and audit all of the business records and accounts of the Company.
 
 
The Company shall have monthly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP no later than fifteen (15) Business Days after the end of each month.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board by Majority Consent, the Company shall arrange for its annual financial statements to be audited by an independent auditor no later than sixty (60)calendar days after the end of each Fiscal Year.  Furthermore, upon Caterpillars request prior to October 1of each year, the Company shall arrange for its financial statements relating to the twelve (12) month period ended each December 31 to be audited by an independent auditor no later than sixty (60) calendar days following such December 31.  All of the financial statements described in the two immediately preceding sentences shall include all year-end accruals required by GAAP.  All of the financial statements of the Company shall be prepared so as to enable each Member to satisfy all of the financial reporting requirements to which such Member is subject.  From and after the Effective Date until such time as the Board changes the independent auditor of the Company pursuant to the next sentence, the initial independent auditor of the Company shall be KPMG LLP.  The Company and Navistar will instruct KPMG LLP to permit Caterpillars independent auditor, at Caterpillars sole cost and expense, to review KPMG LLPs audit records for the Company.  The selection, change, or termination of the Companys independent auditor shall require the Majority Consent of the Board.  Furthermore, the selection or change of the accounting methods, methodologies, practices, procedures, or policies utilized by the Company (except for those changes that are required by any new accounting standards or any regulatory requirements), and the approval of the annual financial statements for the twelve (12) month period ended at the end of each Fiscal Year and the financial statements for the twelve (12) month period ended each December 31, in each case, shall require the Majority Consent of the Board.
 
 
 
 
The Company shall provide to each Member such other information as is reasonably necessary or reasonably requested by such Member to enable such Member to comply with such Members tax obligations.  In addition, each Member shall provide to the Company such information as is reasonably necessary by the Company to enable the Company to comply with its tax obligations.
 
 
The Company shall employ internal controls and related processes that are no less rigorous than the internal controls and related processes that are required in order for each Member to be in full compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 
 
Representatives selected by Navistar and Caterpillar from their respective tax departments shall act on behalf of the Members with respect to tax decisions that are expressly to be made by the Members under this Agreement.  Pursuant to , the Board is authorized to resolve any disputes regarding such tax decisions.
Section 5.13.37
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding , any Member may Transfer all, but not less than all, of its Membership Interest to any one of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries without the consent of the other Member; , that (a) such transferred Membership Interest shall remain subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (b) such direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaryshall become liable for all of the transferring Members obligations under this Agreement and shall agree in writing to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (c) unless the transferee has a net worth equal to or greater than the net worth of the transferring Member, the transferring Member guarantees all financial obligations of the transferee, (d) such transferee is obligated to Transfer such Membership Interest back to the transferring Member if the transferee ceases to be a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the transferring Member, and (e) no further Transfer of such transferred Membership Interest shall be permitted unless such Transfer complies with all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 19.1
provided
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, a Member may not Transfer, pledge, or in any manner encumber its Membership Interest during any period while such Member is in Material Breach.
 
 
 
In the event (a) of a dispute, controversy, or claim between the Members under or in any manner related to this Agreement other than a Company Deadlock (a ), or (b) that any matter that is submitted to a vote by the Members or the Board, after good faith discussion and negotiation among the Members or the Representatives, as applicable, does not receive the required vote to approve such matter and is not withdrawn from consideration by the Member or the Representative(s) submitting such matter to a vote upon the failure to receive such approval (a ), the Members shall meet and work together in good faith and use commercially reasonable efforts to expeditiously resolve the Company Dispute or the Company Deadlock internally by reference to their respective senior management promptly following written notice given by either Member to the other Member; , , that the foregoing requirement to use commercially reasonable efforts shall not apply to any Company Dispute or Company Deadlock over matters relating to the adoption or amendment of an Annual Business Plan or a Rolling Business Plan.  If the Members are unable to internally resolve the Company Dispute or the Company Deadlock within thirty (30) calendar days after such notice, then at anytime thereafter:
Company Dispute
Company Deadlock
provided
however
 
20.1
 
In the event of any Company Dispute, each Party shall be entitled to exercise any and all rights and remedies available to such Party under law, in equity or otherwise, subject to the terms of , , and .
Sections 23.12
23.13
23.14
23.15
 
20.2
 
In the event of a Company Deadlock the matter shall be deemed not approved and withdrawn from consideration (it being understood that with respect to , such in-kind contribution shall not be made) and the Company shall continue operating in the ordinary course of business.
Section 5.13.18
 
20.3
 
In the event of a Company Deadlock with respect to an Annual Business Plan pursuant to , the Company shall continue operating under the Rolling Business Plan most recently approved by the Board.  If, after the date that is sixty (60) months following the Effective Date, upon the expiration of the then current Rolling Business Plan, the Board shall not have adopted a new Annual Business Plan for the following Fiscal Year or a new Rolling Business Plan to commence the following Fiscal Year, this Agreement shall be deemed terminated (as provided in ).  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Board shall not have adopted a new Rolling Business Plan covering the Fiscal Year ending October 31, 2014, the Company shall operate under the final ten (10) months of the Initial Rolling Business Plan during the period from November 1, 2013, through the date that is sixty (60) months following the Effective Date.
Section 5.13.1
Section 21.2.5
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective Date and shall continue in full force and effect,unless earlier terminated in accordance with this Agreement, for a period of twenty-five (25) years from the Effective Date; , that (a) upon the twenty (20) year anniversary of the Effective Date, the Members may agree in writing to extend the term of this Agreement by another five (5) years beyond the initial twenty five (25) year term, and (b) every five (5) years after such twenty (20) year anniversary, the Members may agree in writing to further extend the term of this Agreement for another five (5) years beyond the then extended term.
 
provided
 
 
This Agreement shall be terminated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(the exercise of any of the foregoing, a ).  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, and for the avoidance of doubt, a breach of any provision of this Agreement by a Party shall not entitle such breaching Party to terminate this Agreement.
Termination Event
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to , proceeds in liquidation shall be applied:
Section 21.5
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of a dissolution of the Company, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the assets of the Company shall be used to satisfy the Companys obligations under in the following order of precedence: (a) , money, accounts receivable, chattel paper, documents, instruments, and investment property shall be used to satisfy amounts owing under and , (b) , to the extent amounts remain owing under and , the remaining assets of the Company (other than Intellectual Property and the agreements between the Company and JV Dealers) shall be used to satisfy amounts owing under and , and (c) , to the extent amounts remain owing under and , the Company owned Intellectual Property and the agreements between the Company and JV Dealers shall be used to satisfy amounts owing under and .  To the extent assets of the Company remain after satisfying all amounts owing under and , such assets shall be distributed pursuant to as follows:
Section 21.4
first
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
second
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
third
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
Sections 21.4.1
21.4.2
Section 21.4.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without limiting the generality of , the right of termination and other rights provided in this are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights or remedies a Party may have under this Agreement or applicable law, including the right to damages for breach with or without exercising a right to terminate this Agreement.
Section 23.17
Section 21
 
 
 
 
The Receiving Party shall (a) accord Confidential Information received by it from the Furnishing Party with the same degree of confidential treatment that it accords its similar proprietary and confidential business and technical information, which shall not be less than the care a reasonable business person would exercise under similar circumstances, (b) use such Confidential Information only in connection with this Agreement or the Business, and (c) not disclose any of such Confidential Information to any Person other than its Affiliates and its and their directors, officers, employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents, advisors and licensees who have a need to know in connection with this Agreement or the Business.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of the Furnishing Party, without liability for such disclosure, to the extent that such disclosure is (a) required to be made pursuant to applicable law, stock exchange rule, government authority, duly authorized subpoena, or court order, (b) required to be made to a court or other tribunal in connection with the enforcement of the Receiving Partys rights under this Agreement, or (c) approved by the prior written consent of the Furnishing Party.
 
 
In the event that a Party receives a subpoena or otherwise becomes aware of events which may legally require it to disclose Confidential Information, it shall promptly notify the Party that owns the Confidential Information, and cooperate with that Party (at the expense of that Party) to obtain an order quashing or otherwise modifying the scope of said subpoena or legal requirement in an effort to prevent or limit the disclosure of such Confidential Information.  In the event that such efforts are unsuccessful, a Partys disclosure as required by applicable law shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
 
 
All obligations of confidentiality and all restrictions on the use of Confidential Information under this Agreement shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and thereafter until the date that is two (2) years following the occurrence of the Triggering Event.  Upon the request of the Furnishing Party following the occurrence of the Triggering Event, the Receiving Party shall, at the Furnishing Partys option and expense, return all of the Furnishing Partys Confidential Information or destroy the same, except that the Receiving Party may retain but must keep confidential (except as provided in ) Confidential Information of the Furnishing Party that is necessary in connection with the enforcement of the Receiving Partys rights under this Agreement.
Section 22.2
 
 
Except as may be required by applicable law, securities regulatory authorities, stock exchange rule, government authorities, or as provided in , no Party shall make public the existence or content of this Agreement or the negotiations leading to or pursuant to this Agreement without the written consent of the other Parties; , that no Party shall be prohibited from disclosing the general nature of the business relationship established hereby at any time.  Caterpillar acknowledges and agrees that Navistar will file a copy of this Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will file a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission which will summarize the materials terms of this Agreement.
Section 22.2
provided
 
 
Other than the express licenses granted in this Agreement, no license, express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise, is granted to any Intellectual Property that is now or may hereafter be owned by a Party by virtue of the disclosure of Confidential Information under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
THE WARRANTIES OF EACH PARTY CONTAINED HEREIN ARE IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING  ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF WHICH ARE HEREBY SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED AND DISCLAIMED.
 
 
IN NO EVENT SHALL A PARTY BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR THE EXERCISE OF ITS RIGHTS HEREUNDER, INCLUDING ANY LOSS OF FUTURE REVENUE OR INCOME OR LOSS OF BUSINESS REPUTATION OR OPPORTUNITY ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO ANY BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF ANY NOTICE OF SUCH DAMAGES.  NOTHING IN THIS IS INTENDED TO LIMIT OR RESTRICT THE INDEMNIFICATION RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS OF A PARTY PURSUANT TO or IN REGARD TO AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THIRD PARTIES.
SECTION 23.2
SECTIONS 5.14
16
 
 
Each Party shall bear all of its own costs and expenses incurred in negotiating this Agreement.  No Party may make any offset against amounts due to another Party or any of such other Partys Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.
 
 
A Party shall be excused for any failure or delay in the performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement (other than for the payment of money) if such failure or delay is due to a strike, lockout, work stoppage, labor dispute, material shortage, utility outage, delay in transportation, fire, flood, earthquake, severe weather, act of God, accident, trade sanction, embargo, act of war, terrorism or threats of same, condition caused by national emergency, new or changed law, or any other act or cause beyond the reasonable control or without the fault of such Party, whether similar to or different from the causes above enumerated, and whether affecting such Party or its agents, subcontractors, or suppliers, for as long as such circumstances prevail.  The affected Party shall as soon as practicable notify the other Parties of any actual or anticipated failure or delay, and such affected Party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any force majeure event and its consequences on performance hereunder.  The Parties shall remain liable for those obligations under this Agreement that are not affected by the force majeure event.
 
 
Irrespective of the expiration or termination of this Agreement, the rights and obligations set forth in , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and shall remain in full force and effect to the extent required for their full observance and performance.  The transfer of a Members Membership Interest pursuant to or or the expiration or termination of this Agreement pursuant to shall not affect any right or obligation of a Party which shall have accrued prior to the effective date of such transfer, expiration, or termination.
Sections 4.2
4.10
5.7
5.12
5.14
5.15
10.1.12
13
14
15.2
15.6
16
17
18
19
21
22
23
24
Sections 19
21
Section 21
 
 
The Parties shall execute and deliver any and all documents, and shall cause any and all other reasonable action to be taken, which may be necessary or proper to effect or evidence the provisions of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
 
The Parties hereby agree that each Party shall be entitled to rely on the provisions of this Agreement, and no Party shall be liable to any other Party for any action or refusal to act taken in good faith based on the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts (including by means of facsimile), each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
This Agreement (including the Related Agreements and other documents referred to herein and therein) constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements, or representations by the Parties, written or oral, to the extent they relate in any way to the subject matter hereof.
 
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.  Except as provided in , no Party may assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the other Parties.
Section 19.2
 
 
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless the same shall be in writing and signed by each Party.  No waiver by a Party of any provision of this Agreement or any default, misrepresentation, or breach of warranty hereunder, whether intentional or not, shall be valid unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Party making such waiver nor shall such waiver be deemed to extend to any prior or subsequent default, misrepresentation, or breach of warranty hereunder or affect in any way any rights arising by virtue of any prior or subsequent such default, misrepresentation, or breach of warranty.
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the domestic laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.
 
 
All suits, actions, or proceedings brought by a Party arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any matters contemplated hereby shall be heard and determined in a state or federal court sitting in New Castle County, Delaware, U.S.A., and the Parties hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action, or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such suit, action, or proceeding; , that the foregoing shall not limit the rights of the Parties to obtain judgment in any other jurisdiction or to serve process in any manner permitted by law.
provided
 
 
EACH PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND ABSOLUTELY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY SUIT, ACTION, OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT BY A PARTY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY MATTERS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY, AND AGREES TO TAKE ANY AND ALL ACTION NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE TO EFFECT SUCH WAIVER.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Parties agree that irreparable harm will occur if any of the provisions of this Agreement is not performed in accordance with its specific terms or is otherwise breached.  The Parties further agree in the event of a breach there will be no adequate remedy at law.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties specifically agree such would be the case for a breach of any of the provisions of and .  It is accordingly agreed that each Party shall be entitled to a preliminary and/or permanent injunction or injunctions to remedy breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions hereof, in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.  The Party seeking an injunction shall not be obligated to post a bond or other security in connection therewith, and the non-seeking Party will not dispute irreparable harm or request a bond or other security.
Sections 11.1
15
 
 
If the Members or the Board (as applicable) fail to unanimously agree on the Fair Market Value of any property or assets under any provision of this Agreement, within twenty (20) calendar days after delivery of a notice from a Member requesting a determination, the Members or the Board (as applicable) shall promptly retain a nationally recognized independent valuation firm to determine such Fair Market Value.  In the absence of mutual agreement by the Members or Majority Consent of the Board (as applicable) on a valuation firm within five (5) calendar days of the expiration of such twenty (20) calendar day period, each Member shall designate within five (5) calendar days thereafter a nationally recognized valuation firm for the sole purpose of selecting a valuation firm to determine such Fair Market Value.  If a Member fails to designate such a valuation firm within such five (5) calendar day period, then the other Members designated valuation firm shall be deemed the mutually agreed accounting firm to serve for all purposes of this .  If each Member designates a valuation firm within such five (5) calendar day period, then the two (2) such designated firms shall promptly select a nationally recognized valuation firm to determine such Fair Market Value pursuant to this , which valuation firm shall be independent from the two (2) designated valuation firms, the Members and the Company.  The valuation firm selected pursuant to this is referred to as the .  After the selection of the Independent Valuation Firm, (a) each Member shall submit to the Independent Valuation Firm in writing, not later than ten (10) calendar days after the Independent Valuation Firm is retained, its position with respect to such Fair Market Value, together with such supporting documentation as it deems necessary or as the Independent Valuation Firm requests, and (b) the Independent Valuation Firm shall, within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving the positions of the Members and all supplementary supporting documentation requested by the Independent Valuation Firm (or if a Member fails or refuses to provide such information and documentation within a reasonable period of time, upon the expiration of a reasonable period of time), render its decision as to such Fair Market Value, which decision shall be final and binding on, and nonappealable by, the Members and the Company.  The Independent Valuation Firm shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator.  The fees and expenses of the Independent Valuation Firm shall be paid one half by each Member.
Section 23.16
Section 23.16
Section 23.16
Independent Valuation Firm
 
 
The remedies provided in this Agreement shall be cumulative and, except as expressly limited in this Agreement, shall not preclude the assertion or exercise of any other rights or remedies available under law, in equity, or otherwise.
 
 
Any term or provision of this Agreement that is invalid or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction.  The Parties agree to attempt in good faith to replace any such invalid or unenforceable provision with a valid and enforceable provision designed to achieve, to the extent possible under applicable law, the business purpose and intent of such invalid or unenforceable provision.
 
 
This Agreement shall not confer any rights or remedies upon any Person other than the Parties and, to the extent expressly set forth herein, their Affiliates, the Indemnitees, the Navistar Indemnified Persons, the Caterpillar Indemnified Persons, and the Company Indemnified Persons, and all of their respective successors and permitted assigns.
 
 
The Parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement.  In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the Parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any Party by virtue of the authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement.  Any reference to any federal, state, local, or foreign statute or law shall be deemed also to refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context requires otherwise.  Any reference to the consent or approval of the Board shall be deemed to mean the consent or approval of a simple majority of the Representatives unless such reference expressly refers to Majority Consent.  Unless the context requires otherwise, singular includes plural and vice versa and any gender includes every gender, and where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other grammatical form of that word or phrase shall have a corresponding meaning.  The word including shall mean including without limitation.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the words hereof, herein, hereunder, hereby, or words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section, subsection, clause or other subdivision hereof.  The word or shall be disjunctive but not exclusive.  Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, all decisions, elections and other actions to be made by the Company hereunder shall be made by the officers of the Company at the direction and control of the President and in accordance with .
Section 6
 
 
The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
 
 
Any notice, request, instruction, or other document to be given hereunder by a Party shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given (a) when received, if given in person or by courier or a courier service, (b) on the date of transmission, if sent by facsimile or other wire transmission (receipt confirmed), or (c) five (5) Business Days after being deposited in the mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid:
 
 
 
 
Each of the Members hereby irrevocably waives, to the extent it may lawfully do so, any right that such Member may have to maintain any action for partition with respect to Company property.
 
 
The Exhibits identified in this Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
 
 
 
The following terms when set forth in initial capital letters in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings:
 
 shall mean, as to any Person, any other Person in which the specified Person owns, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, any equity interest equal to or greater than five percent (5%); , , that, with respect to Navistar, 5% Affiliates shall not include DealCor Dealers.
5% Affiliates
provided
however
 
 shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, Title 6, Sections 18-101, et. seq. of the Delaware Code, and any successor statute, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Act
 
 is defined in .
Actual Annual Company Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.3
 
 is defined in .
Actual Annual Navistar Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.3
 
 is defined in .
Actual Quarterly Company Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.3
 
 is defined in .
Adjusted Annual Company Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.5
 
 shall mean, with respect to any Member, the deficit balance, if any, in such Members Capital Account, maintained pursuant to , as of the end of the relevant Fiscal Year, after giving effect to the following adjustments:  (a) credit to such Capital Account any amounts which such Member is obligated to restore, because of a promissory note to the Company or otherwise, or is deemed to be obligated to restore pursuant to the penultimate sentence in each of Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) (ii) and 1.704-2(i)(5), and (b) debit to such Capital Account the items described in Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(5), and 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(6) of the Treasury Regulations.
Adjusted Capital Account Deficit
Section 18.1
 
 shall mean, as to any Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the specified Person.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term control when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise; and the terms Affiliated, controlling, and controlled have the meanings correlative to the foregoing.  A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if such first Person owns (a) greater than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or other equity interests of such other Person entitled to vote or (b) greater than 50% of the total value of all stock or other equity interests of such other Person.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term Affiliate, as it relates to either Caterpillar or Navistar, shall be defined so as to not include the Company or any of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, irrespective of the Percentage Interest held by either Member at any given time.
Affiliate
 
 is defined in .
Aggregate Actual Quarterly Company Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.3
 
 is defined in the preamble.
Agreement
 
 shall mean any part for a Medium Duty Truck or a Heavy Duty Truck, other than Navistar Brand parts and Caterpillar Brand parts, that is produced by an OEM supplier to meet OEM specifications for such Medium Duty Truck or Heavy Duty Truck.
All-Makes Parts
 
 is defined in .
Annual Business Plan
Section 2.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Annual Business Plan Capital Contribution Commitment
Section 2.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Annual Business Plan Loan Commitment
Section 2.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Auditor
Section
15.3.8.1
 
 shall mean all Intellectual Property that (a) was the property of, is jointly owned or is licensed from a third party by, one Member or its Affiliates prior to the Effective Date, or (b) is independently developed by a Member or its Affiliates.
Background Intellectual Property
 
 is defined in .
Baseline Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5.1
 
 is defined in .
Beneficiary
Section 19.1.2.2
 
 shall mean, collectively, Blue Diamond Truck S.R.L. de C.V. and Blue Diamond Parts, LLC.
Blue Diamond
 
 shall mean the Board of Representatives of the Company elected in accordance with .
Board
Section 5
 
 is defined in .
Business
Section 2.1
 
 shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies in Illinois are authorized or obligated by law to close.
Business Day
 
 is defined in .
Buy-Out Interest
Section 21.6.1.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy-Out Interest Option
Section 21.6.1.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy-Out Interest Option Period
Section 21.6.1.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy-Out Interest Purchase Price
Section 21.6.1.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy-Out Member
Section 21.6.1.1
 
 is defined in .
Buy/Sell Member
Section 21.6.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Buy/Sell Notice
Section 21.6.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy/Sell Option
Section 21.6.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Buy/Sell Purchase Price
Section 21.6.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Capital Account
Section 18.1
 
 shall mean, with respect to any Member, the amount of cash or the Gross Asset Value of any other property (net of the amount of any liabilities to which such property is subject) contributed to the Company with respect to such Members Membership Interest.
Capital Contribution
 
 shall mean (a) an Annual Business Plan Capital Contribution Commitment, or (b) a Three-Year Business Plan Capital Contribution Commitment.
Capital Contribution Commitment
 
 is defined in the preamble.
Caterpillar
 
 shall mean any brand maintained or used by Caterpillar or any of its Affiliates for use or in connection with JV Trucks (including any engines, parts and components used in JV Trucks).
Caterpillar Brand
 
 shall mean, as to any particular time, (a) a Person that is a competitor of any or all of the Business and any business of Caterpillar at such time, or (b) any Affiliate of such Person (, , that neither Navistar nor any Affiliate of Navistar shall be deemed to be a Caterpillar Competing Person).
Caterpillar Competing Person
provided
however
 
 shall mean Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and its Affiliates.
Caterpillar Financial
 
 shall mean Caterpillar and its Affiliates and their respective successors, assigns, agents, employees, officers, and directors.
Caterpillar Indemnified Person
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Strategic Alliance Agreement.
Caterpillar Truck
 
 shall mean any JV Truck Model that, upon the determination of the Board by Majority Consent and the determination of Caterpillar in its discretion, shall be sold under the Caterpillar Brand by the Company from time to time.
Caterpillar Truck Model
 
 
 is defined in .
CFO
Section 6.1
 
 of a Member shall mean, with respect to such Members ultimate parent company, any of the following:  (a) a sale of all or substantially all of such Persons assets (whether directly or indirectly through one or more of such Persons subsidiaries or Affiliates) to one or more Competing Persons, (b) a sale of more than 50% of all of the outstanding voting equity interests in such Person to one or more Competing Persons acting individually or as a group under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) a merger or consolidation of such Person with one or more Competing Persons in which the stockholders of such Competing Persons as of immediately prior to the record date pertaining to such merger or consolidation are in control of the Person surviving such merger or consolidation, in the case of each of , , and , in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions.  For purposes of of the immediately preceding sentence, the term control when used with respect to any Person means the ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding equity interests in such Person.
Change in Control
clauses (a)
(b)
(c)
clause (c)
 
 is defined in .
Change in Control Member
Section 21.6.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Change in Control Notice
Section 21.6.2.1
 
 shall mean the Peoples Republic of China.
China
 
 is defined in .
China Business Plan
Section 2.3.4
 
 shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
 shall mean replacement parts that are used in both JV Truck Models and in vehicles and machines that are not JV Truck Models.
Common Parts
 
 is defined in the preamble.
Company
 
 is defined in .
Company Deadlock
Section 20
 
 is defined in .
Company Dispute
Section 20
 
 shall mean the Company and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, and their respective successors, assigns, agents, employees, officers, and directors.
Company Indemnified Person
 
 shall mean, with respect to each Fiscal Quarter or Fiscal Year, as applicable, and with respect to the Legacy Countries, the amount of profits earned or losses incurred by the Company from sales by the Company or any of its Affiliates of Medium Duty Trucks, Heavy Duty Trucks and replacement parts therefor in the Legacy Countries determined in accordance with .
Company Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5
 
 is defined in .
Competing Operations
Section 15.5
 
 shall mean, as to any particular time, (a) a Person that manufactures trucks that are in competition with any or all of the Business, any business of Caterpillar that generated more than $300,000,000 in annual revenue during the then most recent complete fiscal year of Caterpillar, and any business of Navistar that generated more than $300,000,000 in annual revenue during the then most recent complete Fiscal Year of Navistar, and (b) any subsidiary or Affiliate of such Person.
Competing Person
 
 is defined in .
Competitive OEM
Section 11.3.6
 
 is defined in .
Competitive OEM Dealer
Section 11.3.6
 
 shall mean information disclosed by the Furnishing Party to the Receiving Party in connection with this Agreement that is reasonably considered confidential or proprietary by the Furnishing Party, whether written or oral or in electronic or other form.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information does not include information that is (a) at the time of its disclosure, or thereafter becomes, part of the public domain through no act or fault of the Receiving Party, (b) known to the Receiving Party at the time of its disclosure by the Furnishing Party, (c) independently developed by the Receiving Party without reference to the information disclosed, or (d) rightfully disclosed to the Receiving Party by a third party not subject to an obligation of confidentiality with respect to the information disclosed.
Confidential Information
 
 is defined in .
Contributing Member
Section 3.2.3.2.2
 
 or  shall refer to China, Russia, Brazil, South Africa, Australia, or Turkey.
Core ROW Country
Core ROW Countries
 
 shall mean November 1, 2009.
Core ROW Country Launch Date
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in (i) the applicable Master Component Supply Agreementswith respect to JV Truck Components and JV Truck Replacement Parts sold to the Company by a Member, (ii) the applicable Master Component Supply Agreementswith respect to components and replacement parts sold by the Company to a Member, (iii) the Master Terms for Purchased Services with respect to services performed for the Company by a Member, (iv) the Truck Sales Agreement for JV Trucks sold to the Company by Navistar, and (v) the Master Development Services Agreements for development services performed for the Company by a Member.
Cost
 
 
 
 shall mean the Peoples Republic of China (including Hong Kong, Macau, and Tibet) and Taiwan.
COE China
 
 shall mean commercial off-the-shelf vehicles.
COTS
 
 is defined in .
Credit Agreement
Section 15.2
 
 shall mean any existing or future dealer owned by Navistar or any of its Affiliates that is located in North America and subject to Navistars export guidelines with respect to trucks and replacement parts (it being understood and agreed that Navistar will strictly enforce such guidelines against such dealer to prevent such dealer from exporting trucks and replacement parts into the ROW).
DealCor Dealer
 
 is defined in .
Disputed Remaining Assets
Section 21.5.3.2
 is defined in the preamble.
Effective Date
 is defined in .
Employee Secondment Agreement
Section 1.6.8
 is defined in .
ESC
Section 13.6
 is defined in .
Exercise Notice
Section 3.2.5
 shall mean the price at which a willing seller and a willing buyer would trade the relevant property or assets.  If the Members or the Board (as applicable) fail to agree on the Fair Market Value of any property or assets under any provision of this Agreement, the determination shall be made by the Independent Valuation Firm under the procedure set forth in .
Fair Market Value
Section 23.16
 shall mean the price at which a willing seller and a willing buyer would trade and shall take into account all relevant factors, including the Companys assets, liabilities, earnings, goodwill, going concern value, and future prospects (in each case after taking into account those certain transactions set forth in , and ), and shall be determined pursuant to the relevant provisions of this Agreement using standard valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flows, comparable companies and precedent transaction analyses as well as any other techniques deemed applicable by both Members under the market conditions existing at the time at which such determination is made.
Fair Value of the Company
Sections 21.6.5
21.6.7
21.7
 shall mean parts for a Medium Duty Truck or a Heavy Duty Truck that are originally installed in such vehicle by the OEM of such vehicle.
First-Fit Parts
 shall mean the period commencing on November 1st of each year and ending as of October 31st of that same year; , , that the first Fiscal Year of the Company shall commence as of the Effective Date and end on the following October 31st.
Fiscal Year
provided
however
 shall mean the policy heretofore agreed to by the Members.
Fleet Sale Policy
 shall mean the Party furnishing Confidential Information under .
Furnishing Party
Article 22
 
 shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles and practices  applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 shall mean a policy or practice of servicing out-of-warranty customers.
Goodwill Policy
 shall mean non-military, governmental, cab over engine Medium Duty Truck and Heavy Duty Truck customers.
Governmental COE Customers
 shall mean non-military, governmental, conventional (non-cab over engine) Medium Duty Truck and Heavy Duty Truck customers.
Governmental Conventional Customers
 shall mean, with respect to any asset, the assets adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes, except as follows:
Gross Asset Value
 
 
 
 
 
 
 shall mean a cab over engine Heavy Duty Truck utilizing an engine with displacement of nine (9) liters or more.
Heavy Duty COE Truck
 
 shall mean any on-highway truck (including any off-highway derivative of any on-highway truck) with a gross vehicle weight rating equal to or greater than fifteen (15) metric tons.
Heavy Duty Truck
 
 shall mean the Person or Persons entitled to, or claiming a right to, indemnification under .
Indemnified Person
Section 16
 
 shall mean the Person or Persons obligated to provide indemnification under .
Indemnifying Person
Section 16
 
 is defined in .
Indemnitee
Section 5.14
 
 is defined in Section 23.16.
Independent Valuation Firm
 
 is defined in Section 2.2.1.
Initial Annual Business Plan
 
 is defined in the recitals.
Initial Operating Agreement
 
Initial Rolling Business Plan is defined in Section 2.2.2.
 
 is defined in Section 7.1.
Initial Staffing Plan
 
 shall mean trade secrets, ideas, inventions, designs, utility models, developments, devices, methods or processes (whether patented or patentable and whether or not reduced to practice) and all patents and patent applications related thereto; copyrightable works and mask works (whether or not registered); trademarks, service marks and trade dress; all registrations and applications for registration related thereto and know-how; and all other intellectual or industrial property rights in any jurisdiction.
Intellectual Property
 
 is defined in .
Intellectual Property License Agreement
Section 1.6.3
 
 is defined in .
Intercompany Promissory Note
Section 1.6.10
 
 is defined in .
Investment Banker
Section 21.6.1.1
 
 shall mean IVECO Trucks Australia Limited and its Affiliates.
IVECO
 
 is defined in .
Joint Owner
Section 14.6
 
 is defined in .
Jointly Owned Intellectual Property
Section 14.6
 
 shall mean any Person who signs a sales and service agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates for the sale and servicing of JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts.
JV Dealer
 
 shall mean Medium Duty Trucks and Heavy Duty Trucks.  JV Trucks shall not include buses or military or tactical vehicles (including Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles).
JV Truck
 shall mean any facility and associated land purchased, leased or otherwise procured by the Company or any of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries to assemble or manufacture JV Trucks in a particular territory in the ROW.
JV Truck Assembly Facility
 
 shall mean first fit, production use, direct materials required for the assembly of Medium Duty Trucks or Heavy Duty Trucks, including engines and transmissions.
JV Truck Components
 
 shall mean those truck models that are sold by the Company.
JV Truck Models
 
 shall mean all new or remanufactured replacement parts, service parts, and maintenance parts for JV Trucks.
JV Truck Replacement Parts
 
 shall mean each of the Non-Core ROW Countries set forth on
Legacy Country
Schedule 2.3.5
 
 is defined in .
Legacy Country Commencement Date
Section 2.3.5
 
 shall mean any Medium Duty Truck or Heavy Duty Truck sold by Navistar or any of its Affiliates to any Person prior to the Effective Date.
Legacy Trucks
 
 shall mean losses, demands, claims, liabilities, obligations, causes of action, assessments, damages, fines, penalties and expenses (including reasonable attorneys, professional, and expert witness fees and expenses).
Liabilities
 
 shall mean (a) an Annual Business Plan Loan Commitment, or (b) a Three-Year Business Plan Loan Commitment.
Loan Commitment
 
 is defined in conjunction with .
Losses
Profits
 
 shall mean the joint venture that exists pursuant to the Mahindra JV Agreement.
Mahindra JV
 
 shall mean collectively that certain (i) Joint Venture Agreement, dated November 17, 2005, by and among Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, International Truck and Engine Corporation, Mahindra International Private Limited, International Truck and Engine Mauritius Holding Ltd and International Truck and Engine Corporation Cayman Islands Holding Company, and (ii) Waiver of Certain Provisions to Joint Venture Agreement, dated April 27, 2009 (the ), signed by all of the foregoing parties, in the case of each of and , as in effect on the signing date of the Mahindra Waiver.
Mahindra JV Agreement
Mahindra Waiver
clauses (i)
(ii)
 
 is defined in .
Mahindra JV Royalties
Section 2.3.9
 
 shall mean India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar and Malaysia.
Mahindra Territory
 
 of the Board shall mean the approval, authorization or ratification of at least four (4) of the Representatives comprising the Board, which approval, authorization or ratification may be given or withheld for any or no reason in the sole and absolute discretion of each Representative.
Majority Consent
 
 shall mean market analysis, competitive analysis, product support plans, future product plans, marketing plans, assistance with business plans, sales plans and transition plans to move the Legacy Country sales from Navistar to the Company.
Marketing Services
 shall mean those services described under the Service Category Code SE or the Service Category Code AE, in each case in to the Master Terms for Purchased Services.
Mark-Up Engineering Services
Exhibit 3
 
 is defined in .
Master Component Supply Agreement
Section 1.6.1
 
 is defined in .
Master Development Services Agreement
Section 1.6.6
 
 is defined in .
Master Terms for Purchased Services
Section 1.6.2
 
 shall mean (a) one or more failures (irrespective of whether or not such failures pertain to related events) to pay any monies required to be paid under this Agreement or a Related Agreement exceeding $2,000,000 in the aggregate (and not disputed in good faith) when such monies become due and payable (other than (i) any Capital Contribution or loan that is approved by the Board upon Majority Consent or (ii) any Capital Contribution Commitment or Loan Commitment set forth in the Initial Annual Business Plan, the Initial Rolling Business Plan, any subsequent Annual Business Plan, or any subsequent Rolling Business Plan (with respect to each such subsequent Annual Business Plan and subsequent Rolling Business Plan, as approved by the Board upon Majority Consent), the failure of which to pay when due and payable shall be governed by ), (b) any fraud or willful misconduct, (c) any failure of a Member to repay a Member Loan in accordance with its terms under which such Member is the borrowing Member, (d) any failure of a Non-Contributing Member to exercise the Purchase Option within the applicable time period set forth in the first sentence of and then to consummate such Purchase Option in accordance with , or (e) any material breach of , , , or .
Material Breach
Section 3.2.3
Section 3.2.5
Section 3.2.5
Section 11.1.2
11.1.3
14
15
19
 
 shall mean a cab over engine, on-highway truck (including any off-highway derivative of any on-highway truck) with a gross vehicle weight rating equal to or greater than eight (8) metric tons and utilizing an engine with displacement of less than nine (9) liters.
Medium Duty COE Truck
 
 shall mean any on-highway truck (including any off-highway derivative of any on-highway truck) with a gross vehicle weight rating equal to or greater than eight (8) metric tons and less than fifteen (15) metric tons.
Medium Duty Truck
 
 or  shall refer to Caterpillar and Navistar and any other Person that has been admitted as a member of the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Member
Members
 
 is defined in .
Member Acquisition
Section 15.5
 
 is defined in .
Member Loan
Section 3.2.3.2.1
 
 shall mean an amount, determined in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-2(i)(3) with respect to each partner nonrecourse debt (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-2(b)(4)), which equals the Minimum Gain that would result if such partner nonrecourse debt were treated as a nonrecourse liability (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.752-1(a)(2)).
Member Minimum Gain
 
 shall mean a Members interest in the Company, including the right, if any, to participate in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, including the right, if any, to vote on, consent to or otherwise participate in any decision or action of or by the Members and the right to receive information concerning the Business and affairs of the Company, in each case to the extent expressly provided in this Agreement or otherwise required by the Act.
Membership Interest
 
 is defined in .
MPC
Section 10.4
 
 is defined in the preamble.
Navistar
 
 shall mean any brand maintained or used by Navistar or any of its Affiliates for use or in connection with JV Trucks (including any engines, parts, and components used in JV Trucks).
Navistar Brand
 
 shall mean, as to any particular time, (a) a Person that is a competitor of any or all of the Business and any business of Navistar at such time, or (b) any Affiliate of such Person (, , that neither Caterpillar nor any Affiliate of Caterpillar shall be deemed to be a Navistar Competing Person).
Navistar Competing Person
provided
however
 
 shall mean Iraq, Afghanistan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Poland, Romania, Italy, Israel, Egypt, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Oman, Yemen, Thailand, Colombia, Singapore, Greece and Portugal.
Navistar Conventional Countries
 
 shall mean Navistar Financial Corporation and its Affiliates.
Navistar Financial
 
 shall mean Navistar and its Affiliates and their respective successors, assigns, agents, employees, officers, and directors.
Navistar Indemnified Person
 
 shall mean, with respect to each Fiscal Quarter or Fiscal Year, as applicable, and with respect to the Legacy Countries, the amount of profits earned or losses incurred by Navistar from sales by Navistar or any of its Affiliates of Medium Duty Trucks, Heavy Duty Trucks and replacement parts therefor in the Legacy Countries determined in accordance with .
Navistar Legacy Profit Amount
Section 2.3.5
 
 shall mean any JV Truck Model that, upon the determination of the Board by Majority Consent and the determination of Navistar in its discretion, shall be sold under the Navistar Brand by the Company from time to time.
Navistar Truck Model
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Strategic Alliance Agreement.
Navistar Vehicle
 
 shall mean the net present value of the increased income tax liability incurred by the remaining Member or Members of the Company in the event of a termination of the Company pursuant to Code Section 708 caused solely by a Transfer by one Member of a 50% interest in the profits and capital of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 708(b)(1)(B) within the 12-month period, calculated as to each remaining Member as the joint product of the following three variables:
Net Present Value of Increased Tax Liability
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of the net present value calculation, the differences in tax depreciation shall be discounted using an annual discount rate equal to 8.0%.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, in no event shall the Net Present Value of Increased Tax Liability be a negative number, and in the event that the above calculation would otherwise result in a negative number, the Net Present Value of Increased Tax Liability shall be deemed to be $0.
 
 is defined in .
NITSA
Section 2.3.3.3
 
 is defined in .
NITSA Acquisition Agreement
Section 2.3.3.3
 
 is defined in .
NITSA Asset Acquisition Alternative
Section 2.3.3.3
 
 is defined in .
NITSA Business Acquisition Date
Section 2.3.3.3
 
 is defined in .
Non-Contributing Member
Section 3.2.3.2.2
 
 shall mean all Non-Core ROW Countries excluding the Navistar Defense Conventional Countries.
Non-Core ROW Conventional Countries
 
 or  shall refer to any country in the ROW that is not a Core ROW Country.
Non-Core ROW Country
Non-Core ROW Countries
 
 is defined in .
Non-Disputed Remaining Assets
Section 21.5.3.1
 
 has the meaning assigned to it in Regulations Sections 1.704-2(b)(1) and 1.704-2(c).
Nonrecourse Deductions
 
 shall mean a cab over engine Medium Duty Truck without regard to engine displacement.
North American Medium Duty COE Trucks
 
 shall mean that certain NASS Truck Sales Agreement by and between Navistar and Caterpillar entered into as of the date hereof.
North American Severe Service Truck Sales Agreement
 
 means, with respect to inventory held for use in connection with NITSAs business, (i) any first-fit component, kit, or truck for which no sales (A) have been made by NITSA in the twelve (12) month period prior to the proposed purchase pursuant to or (B) are projected to be made by NITSA in the twelve (12) month period following the proposed purchase pursuant to , and (ii) any replacement parts for which no sales (A) have been made by NITSA in the twenty-four (24) month period prior to the proposed purchase pursuant to or (B) are projected to be made by NITSA in the twenty-four (24) month period following the proposed purchase pursuant to .
Obsolete
Section 2.3.3.5
Section 2.3.3.5
Section 2.3.3.5
Section 2.3.3.5
 
 shall mean an original equipment manufacturer.
OEM
 
 is defined in .
Offer
Section 19.1.2.2(A)
 
 is defined in .
Offeror
Section 19.1.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Offered Membership Interest
Section 19.1.2.2
 
 has the meaning assigned to it in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(2).
Partner Nonrecourse Deductions
 
 has the meaning set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-2(b)(2), and the amount of Minimum Gain, as well as any net increase or decrease in Minimum Gain, for a Fiscal Year shall be determined in accordance with the rules of Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-2(d).
Partnership Minimum Gain
 
 or  is defined in the preamble.
Party
Parties
 
 is defined in .
Percentage Interest
Section 3.1.2
 
 shall mean an individual, or a corporation, limited liability company, partnership (whether general or limited), joint venture, trust (including a business trust or real estate investment trust), unincorporated organization, joint stock company, association, or other entity, or any government, or any agency or subdivision thereof.
Person
 
 is defined in .
Post-Termination Agreements
Section 21.7.1
 
 shall mean, collectively, (i) that certain Post-Termination Intellectual Property License Agreement by and between Caterpillar, as licensor, and Navistar, as licensee; and (ii) that certain Post-Termination Intellectual Property License Agreement by and between Navistar, as licensor, and Caterpillar, as licensee.
Post-Termination License Agreements
 shall mean that certain Post-Termination Master Development Services Agreement by and between Caterpillar and Navistar.
Post-Termination Master
Development Services Agreement
 is defined in .
Product Support Services
Section 11.5
 
 and  shall mean, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the Companys taxable income or loss, as applicable, for such Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with Section 703(a) of the Code (but including in taxable income or loss, for this purpose, all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be stated separately pursuant to Section 703(a)(1) of the Code), with the following adjustments:
Profits
Losses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 is defined in .
Purchase Option
Section 3.2.5
 
 is defined in .
Purchaser Member
Section 21.6.4
 
 is defined in .
Quarterly Distribution
Section 2.3.5.4
 
 shall mean the Party receiving Confidential Information under .
Receiving Party
Article 22
 
 is defined in .
Regulatory Allocations
Section 18.5.9
 
 is defined in .
Related Agreements
Section 1.6
 
 is defined in .
Remaining Assets
Section 21.5.3.1
 
 shall mean a member of the Board appointed by a Member in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Representative
 
 shall mean, with respect to a Substitute Contribution that was credited to a Contributing Members Capital Account, an amount equal to (a) the amount of the Substitute Contribution, (b) 1.15, (c) the number of days elapsed from the date of the Substitute Contribution to (but not including) the day on which the Non-Contributing Member pays to the Contributing Member an amount in cash equal to the Repurchase Price, (d) three hundred sixty-five (365).
Repurchase Price
multiplied by
multiplied by
divided by
 
 is defined in .
Required Funding Date
Section 3.2.3.1
 
 is defined in .
Right of First Refusal
Section 19.1.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Rolling Business Plan
Section 2.2.2
 
 shall mean every country in the world other than the United States (which shall exclude all territories thereof other than Puerto Rico), Canada, and Mexico and the Mahindra Territory.
ROW
 
 is defined in .
Royalty-Bearing IP License Agreement
Section 1.6.5
 
 shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations for the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated pursuant thereto.
Securities Act
 
 is defined in .
Seller Member
Section 21.6.4
 
 is defined in .
Sharing Agreement
Section 1.6.10
 
 is defined in .
Sourcing Council
Section 9.4.1
 
 shall mean the warranty provided pursuant to the terms and conditions of sale with respect to any Medium Duty Truck, any Heavy Duty Truck or any replacement part therefor.
Standard Warranty
 
 shall mean that certain NASS Strategic Alliance Agreement between the Members dated as of the date hereof.
Strategic Alliance Agreement
 
 is defined in .
Subsequent Staffing Plan
Section 7.1
 
 is defined in .
Substitute Contribution
Section 3.2.3.2.2
 
 shall mean the Member designated as such pursuant to .
Tax Matters Partner
Section 18.10.1
 
 is defined in .
Termination Event
Section 21.2
 
 is defined in .
Termination Event Member
Section 21.6.1.1
 
 is defined in .
Three-Year Business Plan Capital Contribution Commitment
Section 2.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Three-Year Business Plan Loan Commitment
Section 2.2.2
 
 is defined in .
Trademark License Agreement
Section 1.6.4
 
 shall mean a sale, assignment, transfer, exchange or other disposition.
Transfer
 
 shall include temporary and final regulations promulgated under the Code, as such regulations are amended from time to time.
Treasury Regulation
 
 shall mean the earlier of (i) the expiration or termination for any reason of this Agreement and (ii) the closing of any sale and purchase of the Membership Interest pursuant to the Buy/Sell Option or the Buy-Out Interest Option pursuant to .
Triggering Event
Section 21.6.4
 
 is defined in .
Triggering Member
Section 11.1.6
 
 is defined in the recitals.
Truck Business Relationship Agreement
 
 is defined in .
Truck Sales Agreement
Section 1.6.7
 
 of the Members shall mean the approval, authorization, or ratification of all of the Members duly given, which approval may be given or withheld for any or no reason in the sole and absolute discretion of any Member.
Unanimous Consent
 
 is defined in .
Valuation Notice
Section 21.6.2.1
 
 is defined in .
Valuation Price
Section 21.6.2.1
 
 shall mean designed for use for one or more of the applications specified on Exhibit F to the Strategic Alliance Agreement and expressly excludes those applications specified as excluded on Exhibit F to the Strategic Alliance Agreement.
Vocational
 
 shall mean any part for a Medium Duty Truck or a Heavy Duty Truck other than Navistar Brand parts, Caterpillar Brand parts, First-Fit Parts and All-Makes Parts.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Will-Fit Part is not installed by an OEM of such vehicle and is not a proprietary part of an OEM.
Will-Fit Parts
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Caterpillar, Navistar, and the Company have caused this Amended and Restated Joint Venture Operating Agreement to be signed by their respective duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
State of Delaware
Secretary of State
Division of Corporations
Delivered 01:18 PM 07/24/2009
FILED 01:09 PM 07/24/2009
SRV  090725534  4672536 FILE
 
The undersigned, an authorized natural person, for the purpose of forming a limited liability company, under the provisions and subject to the requirements of the State of Delaware (particularly Chapter 18, Title 6 of the Delaware Code and the acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, and known, identified, and referred to as the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act), hereby certifies that:
:  The name of the limited liability company is:
FIRST
:  The address of its registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801.   The name of the registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND
This Certificate of Formation shall be effective upon filing.
THIRD:  
Executed on July 24, 2009
 
/s/Shaun D. Hartley
Shaun D. Hartley
Authorized Person
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
NAVISTAR LEGACY PROFIT AMOUNT CALCULATION AND INDEXING METHODOLOGY
 
The following sets forth the methodology by which Baseline Profit Amount and Navistar Legacy Profit Amount are calculated, with respect to the Legacy Countries, pursuant to Section 2.3.5 of the JVOA. Part I below sets forth the methodology by which Baseline Profit Amount is calculated. Part II below describes the components of, and the methodology used to calculate, the profitability of sales in Legacy Countries. Part III below describes the methodology to be used in calculating the Navistar Legacy Profit Amount.
 
 
This Part I explains the indexing methodology by which Baseline Profit Amount is calculated pursuant to Section 2.3.5 of the JVOA. Baseline Profit Amount will be adjusted by both a GDP Factor and a Working Capital Charge as set forth below.
 
For any year measured, the Baseline Profit Amount represents the sum of two components:
 
 
Each of these components are set out below:
 
A. Truck Baseline EBIT
 
Truck Baseline EBIT will be determined by (i) adjusting Baseline Truck Sales Amount by the GDP Factor, (ii) calculating the Indexed Truck EBIT Margin utilizing the GDP Indexed Baseline Sales Amount, and (iii) subtracting from the Indexed Truck EBIT Margin the Truck Working Capital Charge, each as set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Represents Year 1 and will not need a GDP calculation performed as the baseline profit is already established in Appendix VII.
Fiscal Year 2010 beginning November 1, 2009
 
 Represents Year 2 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Truck Baseline Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the December 31, 2009 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2011 beginning November 1, 2010
 
 Represents Year 3 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Truck Baseline Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2012 beginning November 1, 2011
 
 Represents Year 4 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Truck Baseline Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009; December 31, 2010; and December 31, 2011 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2013 beginning November 1, 2012
 
 Represents Year 5 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Truck Baseline Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009; December 31, 2010; December 31, 2011; and December 31, 2012 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2014 beginning November 1, 2013
 
 
 is equal to the product of (i) 5.9% (which represents JV Truck Profit Margin calculated pursuant to Part II below) and (ii) the respective years GDP Indexed Baseline Truck Sales Amount.
Indexed Truck EBIT Margin
 
 
, is equal to the product of (i) 15/365; (ii) the respective years GDP Indexed Baseline Truck Sales Amount; and (iii) 6%.
Truck Working Capital Charge
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for each of Year Six through Year Ten, the respective years Truck Baseline EBIT is equal to the Year Five Truck Baseline EBIT.
 
 
Replacement Parts Baseline EBIT will be determined by (i) adjusting Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount by the GDP Factor, (ii) calculating the Indexed Replacement Parts EBIT Margin utilizing the GDP Indexed Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (iii) subtracting from the Indexed Replacement Parts EBIT Margin, the Replacement Parts Working Capital Charge, each as set forth below.
 
 
The reported FY 2008 Legacy Countries Replacement Parts Sales are $45,522,000 ().
Initial Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount
 
 
Navistar shall calculate the GDP Factor in the same manner as described in Section A above:
 
 Represents Year 1 and will not need a GDP calculation performed as the baseline profit is already established in Appendix VII.
Fiscal Year 2010 beginning November 1, 2009
 
 Represents Year 2 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the December 31, 2009 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2011 beginning November 1, 2010
 
 Represents Year 3 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2012 beginning November 1, 2011
 
 Represents Year 4 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009; December 31, 2010; and December 31, 2011 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2013 beginning November 1, 2012
 
 Represents Year 5 and will equal the product of (i) the Initial Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (ii) one plus the compounding of the December 31, 2009; December 31, 2010; December 31, 2011; and December 31, 2012 Bloomberg Ticker GDP Factors.
Fiscal Year 2014 beginning November 1, 2013
 
 
 is equal to the product of (i) 26.6% (which represents JV Truck Replacement Parts Profit Margin calculated pursuant to Part II below) and (ii) the respective years GDP Indexed Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount.
Indexed Replacement Parts EBIT Margin
 
 
 is equal to the product of (i) 15/365; (ii) the respective years GDP Indexed Baseline Replacement Parts Sales Amount and (iii) 6%.
Replacement Parts Working Capital Charge
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for each of Year Six through Year Ten, the respective years Replacement Parts Baseline EBIT is equal to the Year Five Replacement Parts Baseline EBIT.
 
 
This Part II describes the components of, and the methodology used to calculate, Legacy Profit Amount, JV Truck Profit Margin and JV Truck Replacement Part Profit Margin.
 
.
Navistar Legacy Profit Amount for sales of JV Trucks and JV Truck Replacement Parts by Navistar in the Legacy Countries
 
 is equal to the sum of:
Legacy Profit Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 is calculated using the following components:
JV Truck Profit Margin
 
 
 
 
 is calculated using the following component:
JV Truck Replacement Parts Profit Margin
 
 
The relevant definitions, source materials and a detailed breakdown of each of the foregoing components are set forth below.
 
 
Overview of Formula Components and Key Definitions
 
.
Legacy JV Truck Gross Margin
 
Legacy JV Truck Gross Margin is equal to Revenue Cost of Goods Sold.
minus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legacy JV Truck Engineering Expenses
 
Legacy JV Truck Engineering Expenses are equal to the sum of all JV Truck engineering costs allocated to each of the Legacy Countries, as outlined under Calculation of JV Truck Engineering Expenses below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legacy JV Truck SG&A Expenses
 
Legacy JV Truck SG&A Expenses are equal to the sum of all pro-forma SG&A expenses allocated to each of the Legacy Countries, as outlined under Calculation of SG&A Expense below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legacy JV Truck Replacement Parts EBIT
 
Legacy JV Truck Replacement Parts EBIT is equal to Legacy JV Truck Replacement Parts Gross Margin Legacy JV Truck Replacement Parts SG&A Expenses minus SOW Legacy Replacement Parts Infrastructure Costs for the period as related to Legacy JV Truck Replacement Parts sold.
minus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Legacy Countries
 
 
 
The Navistar Legacy Profit Amount and the Company Legacy Profit Amount shall be calculated on an annual basis, with the first year commencing on November 1, 2009, consistent with the methodology set forth in Part II hereof, adjusted as may be required to reflect sales by Navistar, or the Company, as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro-forma adjustment descriptions
 
Salary + benefits
 
The adjustment includes an allocation for certain Export-related (and therefore Fish Fry) employees classified in cost centers outside of the Export business
 
Military & Bus
 
The adjustment eliminates the non-recurring allocation from the South Africa regional office to Military and Dubai for a military-related contract (the contract expires in Dec-08). The amount also includes an adjustment for approximately 15% of time spent by Export employees on non-Fish Fry related segments (i.e. Military & Bus)
 
General IT allocations
 
The Company historically allocated general IT costs to the Export business. During FY07, the allocation included ~$200 related to specific Export IT employees, while all other costs were unrelated to the Export business. The adjustment eliminates this general allocation to present the actual specific IT costs related to the Fish Fry JV in the historical periods.
 
FALD program
 
The Company historically allocated costs relating to the Finance Accounting Leadership Development program to the Export business. The costs related to this program are unrelated to the Fish Fry JV.
 
 
 
 
Algeria
Bahamas
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Curacao
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Ghana
Granada
Guam
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Iraq
Israel
Jamaica
Kuwait
Morocco
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Oman
Panama
Peru
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Slovakia
Taiwan
Tanzania
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
United Arab Emirates
Uruguay
US Virgin Islands
Venezuela
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A
Truck Baseline EBIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parts Sales to Warranty
 
Represent sales recorded in the ledger for replacement parts under warranty. Sales are reversed at month-end via journal entry for warranty replacement parts. Cost of sales are reversed at 50.6% of the sales reversal. The adjustment is allocated to each country based on actual results.
 
Core markup
 
Represents decrease of revenue due to the expiration of the liability for the core mark up on part sales. Sales are adjusted for the markup on core that has not yet been earned. The adjustment is allocated to each country based on actual results.
 
SOW Infrastructure Costs
 
Represents costs charged to the JV by Navistar for infrastructure costs (as defined in the SOW) not otherwise covered in the sales price of parts to the JV. These costs are to be adjusted annually to actual costs billed to the JV for such Legacy sales.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 15.3.3.2
EXISTING ARRANGEMENTS FOR SALES OF ENGINE PARTS
 
Engine Group (Navistar MaxxForce Only)
 
 
Additional volumes of MWM engines for Agricultural or Off Road Construction applications are not listed.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
September 10, 2009
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contacts:
Karen Denning
(630) 753-3535
karen.denning@navistar.com
Kate Kenny
Corporate Public Affairs, Caterpillar
(309 636-5253
Kenny_Kate@cat.com
 
WARRENVILLE, IL
--  Navistar International Corporation
(NYSE: NAV)
and Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) today closed a joint venture transaction resulting in a new company,
NC
2
Global LLC
, to serve the global commercial truck market.  Navistar and Caterpillar first announced plans to form a joint venture in June 2008 and have identified the leadership team of the new entity that will establish its headquarters in the Chicago area.
responsible for all brand, product, and pricing strategy.
Together, Navistar and Caterpillar have moved this project from concept to reality in little more than one year, says Al Saltiel, president of NC
2
.  We now have a dedicated and experienced leadership team that will hit the ground running.  Saltiel brings a wide of global distribution and marketing experience to NC
range
2
.  As Vice President of Marketing and head of Navistars marketing efforts since 2004, Saltiel was
 Prior to joining Navistar, he held key senior marketing positions at Sony Electronics, Jaguar, and Fords Premier Automotive Group.
Key Executive Team in Place
Bob Iacullo has been named Chief Financial Officer for NC.  Formerly Business Resource Manager for Caterpillars Infrastructure Product Development Division, Iacullo also held several executive positions in finance at Motorola.
2
Navistar and Caterpillar also have named key business unit directors for product development, sales and marketing, dealer operations, production, supply chain, and parts and service.
 
Page 1
NC will produce and market a full line of commercial on-highway trucks for markets outside of North America, says Saltiel.  Customers will benefit from the unparalleled depth and scope of support provided by Navistar and Caterpillars global dealers.
2
 
Navistar and Caterpillar each have named three people to NCs board of directors.  Caterpillar Group President Doug Oberhelman will serve as Chairman of the Board and Navistar Truck Group President Dee Kapur has been named lead director from Navistar.
2
 
The formation of this joint venture represents a long-term strategic decision, Oberhelman says.  Despite the current challenges facing the global economy, both Caterpillar and Navistar are dedicating the right people and investing significant resources to ensure NCs long-term success in the global on-highway truck market.
2
 
NC
2
Global Manufacturing and Venture
Distribution
 
As previously announced, the 50/50 joint venture will develop, manufacture, and distribute commercial trucks with an initial focus on markets including, Australia, Brazil, China, Russia, South Africa, and Turkey. NCs product line will feature both conventional and cab-over truck designs and will be sold under both the and (Navistar) brands.
2
Cat
International
North American Venture
Caterpillar vocational trucks are scheduled for full production in mid 2011.
Separately, Navistar and Caterpillar continue to work on design and development of a new proprietary, purpose-built, heavy-duty CAT vocational truck for the North American market. The trucks, manufactured in Navistars Garland, Texas facility, will be sold and serviced through the Cat North American Dealer network.  
About Navistar
Navistar International Corporation traces its roots to 1831 and the former McCormick and International Harvester companies.  Today itis the largest North American producer of mid-range diesel engines and class 6-8 commercial trucks and buses.  Navistar, through its Defense Systems Group, is the leading producer of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for the Department of Defense, safeguarding the American war fighter.  The company produces International brand commercial trucks, MaxxForce brand diesel engines, IC brand school and commercial buses, and Workhorse brand chassis for motor homes and step vans, and is a private label designer and manufacturer of diesel engines for the pickup truck, van and SUV markets.  Navistar is also a provider of truck and diesel engine parts.  A wholly owned subsidiary offers financing services. Additional information is available at:
 
www.navistar.com
 
Page 2
 
About Caterpillar
For more than 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been making progress possible and driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2008 sales and revenues of $51.324 billion, Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines. The company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services. More information is available at http://www.cat.com.
CATERPILLAR SAFE HARBOR
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as "will," would, "expect," "anticipate," should or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, (i) adverse change in general economic conditions; (ii) adverse change in the industries Caterpillar serves including construction, infrastructure, mining, energy, marine and electric power generation; (iii) Caterpillars ability to manage material, including steel, and freight costs; (iv) Caterpillars ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for its operations and manage its liquidity needs; (v) material adverse change in customers access to liquidity and capital; (vi) currency exchange or interest rates changes; (vii) political stability; (viii) market acceptance of the company's products and services; (ix) significant changes in the competitive environment; (x) epidemic diseases; (xi) severe change in weather conditions negatively impacting operations; (xii) changes in law, regulations and tax rates; and (xiii) other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors described in more detail in Item 1A  Risk Factors in Part II of our Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on July 31, 2009 for the 2
nd
quarter 2009.  The filing is available on our website at
www.cat.com/sec_filings
.  We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Page 3
 
NAVISTAR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT
 
Information provided and statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements only speak as of the date of this report and the company assumes no obligation to update the information included in this report. Such forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business strategy. These statements often include words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "estimate," or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of performance or results and they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions and depend on a number of factors.  These factors include the ability of Navistar and Caterpillar to fulfill the conditions set forth in the definitive agreement and the entering into the definitive joint venture agreement and strategic alliance agreement and related agreements and the factors described in Item 1A.
 
 
Navistar and Caterpillar Announce Global Truck Joint Venture NCAddendum
2
 
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, which was filed on December 30, 2008 as modified by Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended January 31, 2009, which was filed on March 11, 2009.  Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there are many factors that could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. All future written and oral forward-looking statements by us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to above. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required by the federal securities laws, we do not have any obligations or intention to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances in the future or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
Page 4


