FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20090923150205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Page 1
 
On September 17, 2009, Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) entered into a Credit Agreement (the 364-Day Facility) among Caterpillar, Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the "Borrowers"), certain financial institutions named therein (Banks), Citibank, N.A. (Agent) and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., that provides for an unsecured aggregate revolving credit facility to the Borrowers of up to US$2.388 billion (Aggregate Commitment) and expires on September 16, 2010.  A Japan Local Currency Addendum that enables Caterpillar Finance Corporation to borrow Japanese Yen for an aggregate amount of up to the equivalent of US$75 million, as part of the Aggregate Commitment, was also executed on September 17, 2009.
 
The 364-Day Facility serves as an alternative source of funds, if necessary, for the Borrowers commercial paper programs. The Borrowers have not drawn on the 364-Day Facility.
 
The 364-Day Facility contains certain representations and warranties, covenants and events of default.  The 364-Day Facility is also subject to conditions precedent and the payment of certain facility fees, which, pursuant to current market conditions, have increased compared to 2008.
 
Some of the Banks and the Agent, as well as certain of their respective affiliates, have performed, and may in the future perform, for Caterpillar and its subsidiaries, various commercial banking, investment banking, underwriting and other financial advisory services, for which they have received customary fees and expenses.
 
The foregoing description of the 364-Day Facility is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and provisions of the 364-Day Facility and the Japan Local Currency Addendum filed respectively as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to this report, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
On September 17, 2009, Caterpillar entered into the following amendments to existing credit facilities, (collectively, the Amendments):
 
 
 
 
The Amendments modify, respectively, the 2009 Backup Facility, the 2007 Facility and the 2006 Facility, to be consistent with certain terms and conditions of the 364-Day Facility, including, without limitation, covenants, conditions precedent, representations and warranties and events of default.
 
Page 2
Page 3

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation (), Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), Caterpillar Finance Corporation, an entity organized under the laws of Japan (), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and those financial institutions that become Added Banks pursuant to Section 2.05(c), in each case together with their respective successors and assigns (the ), Citibank, N.A. (), as agent (the ) for the Banks hereunder, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as the Japan Local Currency Agent, agree as follows:
Caterpillar
CFSC
CFC
Banks
Citibank
Agent
 
 
  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
SECTION 1.01.
Certain Defined Terms
 
 means (i) with respect to Caterpillar, on any date of determination, the accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) balance as presented in Caterpillars financial statements compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and (ii) with respect to CFSC, on any date of determination, the aggregate amount, as such amount appears in CFSCs financial statements, compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of (x) CFSCs translation adjustments related to its foreign currency transactions, (y) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs derivative instruments and (z) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs retained interests in securitized receivables.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.02(b).
Activities
 
 means any Bank which becomes a Bank hereunder, or whose Commitment is increased (to the extent of such increase), pursuant to an Assumption and Acceptance as provided in .
Added Bank
Section 2.05(c)
 
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
 means a Revolving Credit Advance, a Japan Local Currency Advance or a Term Loan Advance.
Advance
 
 means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.02(b).
Agents Group
 
 means (i) Dollars, (ii) so long as such currency remains an Eligible Currency, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Francs and euro, and (iii) any other Eligible Currency which the Borrowers request the Agent to include as an Agreed Currency hereunder and which is acceptable to each Bank with a Revolving Credit Commitment; , that the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of each such request and each such Bank shall be deemed not to have agreed to each such request unless its written consent thereto has been received by the Agent within five (5) Business Days from the date of such notification by the Agent to such Bank.
Agreed Currencies
provided
 
 means this Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) as it may from time to time be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Allocated Commitment
Section 2.01(b)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Allocation
Section 2.01(b)
 
 means, with respect to Caterpillar or CFSC at any time, such Borrowers Allocation at such time divided by the Total Commitment at such time.
Allocation Percentage
 
 means, with respect to each Bank, such Banks Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, such Banks Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, and such Banks (or its Affiliates) branch or agency, as specified by such Bank in the Japan Local Currency Addendum, in the case of a Japan Local Currency Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
 means (a) with respect to Base Rate Advances and Japan Base Rate Advances, the greater of (i) the applicable Market Rate Spread minus 1.00% and (ii) 0.00%; and (b) with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances and TIBO Rate Advances, the applicable Market Rate Spread.
Applicable Margin
 
 means each Communication that any Borrower is obligated to, or otherwise chooses to, provide to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum or the transactions contemplated herein or therein, including any financial statement, financial and other report, notice, request, certificate and other information material; , , that, solely with respect to delivery of any such Communication by any Borrower to the Agent and without limiting or otherwise affecting either the Agents right to effect delivery of such Communication by posting such Communication to the Approved Electronic Platform or the protections afforded hereby to the Agent in connection with any such posting, Approved Electronic Communication shall exclude (i) any notice that relates to a request for an extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or Interest Period relating thereto), (ii) any notice of Conversion, Redenomination or continuation, and any other notice, demand, communication, information, document and other material relating to a request for a new, or a Conversion, Redenomination or continuation of an existing, Advance, (iii) any notice pursuant to Section 2.09and any other notice relating to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iv) all notices of any Event of Default or unmatured Event of Default, (iv) any notice, demand, communication, information, document and other material required to be delivered to satisfy any of the conditions set forth in Article III or any other condition to any Advance or other extension of credit hereunder or any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and (v) service of process.
Approved Electronic Communications
provided
however
 
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(d).
Approved Electronic Platform
 
 means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Capital, the Investment Banking Division of Barclays Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Socit Gnrale and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Arrangers
 
 means an assignment and acceptance entered into by an assigning Bank and an assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in accordance with and in substantially the form of hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 8.07
Exhibit C-1
 
 means an assumption and acceptance executed by an Added Bank and the Borrowers, and accepted by the Agent, in accordance with and in substantially the form of hereto.
Assumption and Acceptance
Section 2.05(c)
Exhibit C-2
 
 means, as to any Bank at any time, such Banks Revolving Credit Commitment at such time the aggregate Dollar Amount of such Banks outstanding Revolving Credit Advances.
Available Revolving Credit Commitment
minus
 
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereof.  To the extent applicable, any reference to a Bank or the Banks includes a reference to a Japan Local Currency Bank or the Japan Local Currency Banks, and, to the extent applicable, any reference to a Bank includes a reference to its Affiliate, branch or agency which is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
Bank
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Bank Addition
Section 2.05(c)
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.06.
Bank Appointment Period
 
 means, with respect to any Bank, that (i) such Bank or its Parent Company has been adjudicated as, or determined by any Governmental Authority having regulatory authority over such Bank or its Parent Company or its assets to be, insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Bank or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Bank or its Parent Company, or such Bank or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Bank Insolvency Event
 
 means, for any date during any Interest Period or any other period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 means an Advance in Dollars which bears interest as provided in .
Base Rate Advance
Section 2.07(a)
 
 means either the board of directors of a Borrower or any duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
 
 means each of Caterpillar, CFSC and CFC, and  means all of the foregoing.
Borrower
Borrowers
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Agent
Section 8.09
 
 means a Revolving Credit Borrowing, a Japan Local Currency Borrowing or a borrowing composed of Term Loan Advances.
Borrowing
 
 means The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
BTMU
 
 means a day of the year (i) on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City or Chicago, Illinois, (ii) if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advance, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market, (iii) if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advance in euro or any other Agreed Currency other than Dollars or Pounds Sterling, a day on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is operating or, as the case may be, on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open for business in the principal financial center for the Agreed Currency concerned, and (iv) if the applicable Business Day relates to a Japan Local Currency Advance, on which banks are generally open in Tokyo for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and on which dealings in Japanese Yen are carried on in the Tokyo interbank market.
Business Day
 
 means, as at any date, the sum of (i) Caterpillar Consolidated Debt at such date, (ii) stockholders equity (including preferred stock) of Caterpillar at such date.
Capitalization
plus
 
 means, as at any date, the aggregate Debt of Caterpillar and its Subsidiaries (other than CFSC) at such date.
Caterpillar Consolidated Debt
 
 means the outstanding liens on or claims against or in respect of any of the accounts receivable of Caterpillar or any of its Subsidiaries (excluding CFSC and CFSCs Subsidiaries) arising out of the sale or securitization by Caterpillar or any of its Subsidiaries (excluding CFSC and CFSCs Subsidiaries) of such accounts receivable.
Caterpillar Purchase Claims
 
 means an Event of Default with respect to CFC.
CFC Event of Default
 
 means an Event of Default with respect to CFSC.
CFSC Event of Default
 
 means the guaranty by CFSC of the obligations of CFC under this Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum, which guaranty is contained in .
CFSC Guaranty
Article IX
 
 means the outstanding liens on or claims against or in respect of any of the accounts receivable of CFSC or any of its Subsidiaries arising out of the sale or securitization by CFSC or any such Subsidiaries of  such accounts receivable.
CFSC Purchase Claims
 
 means (a) with respect to CFSC, that Caterpillar shall cease to own free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests or other encumbrances, 100% of the outstanding shares of voting stock of CFSC on a fully diluted basis, and (b) with respect to CFC, that either (i) CFSC and Caterpillar, in the aggregate, shall cease to own, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests or other encumbrances, directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries of CFSC or Caterpillar, 90% or more of the outstanding shares of voting of stock of CFC on a fully diluted basis or (ii) CFSC shall cease to own, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests or other encumbrances, directly or indirectly through one or more of its Subsidiaries, 80% or more of the outstanding shares of voting stock of CFC on a fully diluted basis.
Change of Control
 
 means September 17, 2009.
Closing Date
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute.
Code
 
 means, for each Bank, the obligation of such Bank to make (a) Revolving Credit Advances and (b) if it is a Japan Local Currency Bank, Japan Local Currency Advances, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Banks name under the Commitment heading on Schedule I hereto, or on the signature page of the Assignment and Acceptance or Assumption and Acceptance by which it became a Bank hereunder, as such amount may be increased or reduced pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Commitment
 
 means each notice, demand, communication, information, document and other material provided for hereunder or under the Japan Local Currency Addendum or otherwise transmitted between the parties hereto relating to this Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum, any Borrower or its Affiliates, or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum, including, without limitation, all Approved Electronic Communications.
Communications
 
 means as of any particular time, for any Borrower, the aggregate amount of assets after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities, (b) any current liability which has been reclassified as a long-term liability because such liability by its terms is extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed, and (c) all goodwill, excess of cost over assets acquired, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, all as shown in the most recent consolidated financial statements of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
 means as at any date, (i) for Caterpillar, the consolidated stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) of Caterpillar at such date, and (ii) for CFSC, the stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and non-controlling interests as defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) of CFSC on such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.   and  have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 
, , and  each refer to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of another Type pursuant to , , or .
Convert
Conversion
Converted
Section 2.03(a)
2.10
2.15(a)
 
 means, at any time, with respect to Caterpillar or CFSC, the credit rating on such Borrowers long-term senior unsecured debt then most recently publicly announced by either Moodys or S&P, and  means with respect to each such Borrower, such credit ratings from both Moodys and S&P.  In the case of CFC, Credit Rating and Credit Ratings mean, at any time, the Credit Rating and Credit Ratings of CFSC at such time, as determined pursuant to the preceding sentence.
Credit Rating
Credit Ratings
 
 means, with respect to any Bank at any time, September 16, 2010 or such later date to which the Current Termination Date shall then have been extended with the consent of such Bank pursuant to Section 2.16.
Current Termination Date
 
 means (i) indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, (iv) obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, recorded as capital leases, (v) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) above, and (vi) liabilities in respect of unfunded vested benefits under Plans covered by Title IV of ERISA; , , for purposes of and and only, clause (vi) above shall include only those liabilities of the applicable Borrower and all ERISA Affiliates for such Borrowers then current fiscal year (and, if such liabilities are still outstanding, for prior fiscal years) to (a) all single employer plans (as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA) to meet the minimum funding standard requirements of Section 412(a) of the Code (without regard to any waiver under Section 412(c) of the Code) and (b) all multiemployer plans (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) for all required contributions and payments.
Debt
provided
however
Sections 5.03(a)
(b)
5.04(a)
 
 means, at any time, a Bank as to which the Agent has notified the Borrowers that (i) such Bank has failed for three or more consecutive Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make available its ratable portion of a Borrowing (a ) and such failure is continuing, unless such failure arises out of a good faith dispute between the applicable Bank and either a Borrower or the Agent, (ii) such Bank has notified the Agent in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless noncompliance arises out of a good faith dispute between the applicable Bank and either a Borrower or the Agent ), or has made a public statement that it will not comply with any such funding obligation hereunder (unless such noncompliance arises out of a good faith dispute between the applicable Bank and either a Borrower or the Agent), or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (iii) such Bank has, for three or more consecutive Business Days, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent, in response to a written request of the Agent, that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder provided that such Bank shall cease to be a Defaulting Bank under this clause (iii) upon receipt of such confirmation, or (iv) a Bank Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Bank; provided that a Bank shall not be a Defaulting Bank solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in such Bank or its Parent Company by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof.  The Agent will promptly send to all parties hereto a copy of any notice to the Borrowers provided for in this definition.
Defaulting Bank
funding obligation
 
 means, for any currency at any date (i) the amount of such currency if such currency is Dollars or (ii) the Equivalent Amount of Dollars if such currency is any currency other than Dollars.
Dollar Amount
 
 and the sign  each means lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
 means, with respect to any Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its  on its respective signature page hereto or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrowers and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
Domestic Lending Office
 
 means any currency other than Dollars with respect to which the Agent or a Borrower has not given notice in accordance with and that is readily available, freely traded, in which deposits are customarily offered to banks in the London interbank market, convertible into Dollars in the international interbank market, available to the Banks in such market and as to which an Equivalent Amount may be readily calculated.  If, after the designation by the Banks of any currency as an Agreed Currency, (i) currency control or other exchange regulations are imposed in the country or jurisdiction in which such currency is issued with the result that different types of such currency are introduced, or such currency is, in the determination of the Agent, no longer readily available or freely traded or (ii) in the determination of the Agent, an Equivalent Amount with respect to such currency is not readily calculable (each of and , a ), then the Agent shall promptly notify the Banks and the Borrowers, and such currency shall no longer be an Agreed Currency until such time as the Disqualifying Event(s) no longer exist, but in any event within five (5) Business Days of receipt of such notice from the Agent, the Borrowers shall repay all Advances in such currency to which the Disqualifying Event applies.
Eligible Currency
Section 2.15(a)
clause (i)
(ii)
Disqualifying Event
 
 means, as of the date of any assignment as contemplated in , a commercial bank or financial institution (i) with a credit rating on its long-term senior unsecured debt of either (a) AA- or better from S&P or (b) Aa3 or better from Moodys; and (ii) having shareholders' equity of not less than $5,000,000,000.
Eligible Financial Institution
Section 8.07(a)(i)
 
 means, for any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars at any date, the equivalent in such currency of such amount of Dollars, calculated on the basis of the arithmetic mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, in the London interbank market (or other market where the Agents foreign exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted) or, in the case of Japanese Yen, in the Tokyo interbank market for such other currency at or about 11:00 a.m. (local time applicable to the transaction in question) two (2) Business Days prior to the date on which such amount is to be determined ( that if an Equivalent Amount is being determined with respect to the making of a Japan Local Currency Advance on a same-day basis, such amount shall be determined at or about 11:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) on the date of such Japan Local Currency Advance), rounded up to the nearest amount of such currency as determined by the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, from time to time; , , that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate (after consultation with the Borrowers) to determine such amount, and such determination shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
Equivalent Amount
provided
provided
however
 
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute.
ERISA
 
 means each trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which together with a Borrower or a Subsidiary of such Borrower would be deemed to be a single employer within the meaning of Section 4001 of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
 
 means (i) a Reportable Event described in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder (other than a Reportable Event not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations), or (ii) the withdrawal of a Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a single employer Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer, both of such terms as defined in Section 4001(a) of ERISA, or (iii) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, or (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC or (v) any other event or condition which might constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan or (vi) the partial or complete withdrawal of a Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of such Borrower from a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a) of ERISA.
ERISA Termination Event
 
 means the euro referred to in the Council Regulation E.C. No. 1103/97 dated 17 June 1997 passed by the Council of the European Union, or, if different, the then lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that participate in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union.
euro
 
 means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Advance for the relevant Interest Period:
Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
 
 
Any Eurocurrency Base Rate determined on the basis of the rate displayed on a Reuters Screen in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph shall be subject to corrections, if any, made in such rate and displayed by the Reuters Service within one hour of the time when such rate is first displayed by such service.
 
 means, with respect to any Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its Eurocurrency Lending Office on its respective signature page hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrowers and the Agent.  A Bank may specify different offices for its Advances denominated in Dollars and its Advances denominated in other Agreed Currencies, respectively, and the term Eurocurrency Lending Office shall refer to any or all such offices, collectively, as the context may require when used in respect of such Bank.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
 
 has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
 means, with respect to an Advance for the relevant Interest Period, an interest rate obtained by dividing (a) the Eurocurrency Base Rate applicable to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage, such Eurocurrency Rate to be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage.
Eurocurrency Rate
minus
 
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars or in an Agreed Currency which bears interest as provided in .
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
Section 2.07(b)
 
 means for any date that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect on such date, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding five billion dollars in respect of Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to the applicable Interest Period (or in respect of any other category of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined or any category of extensions of credit or other assets which includes loans by a non-United States office of any bank to United States residents).
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Events of Default
Section 6.01
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Extended Termination Date
Section 2.16(c)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Extension Confirmation Date
Section 2.16(b)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Extension Confirmation Notice
Section 2.16(b)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Extension Request
Section 2.16(a)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.04
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Facility Fee Rate
Section 2.04
 
 means the earlier to occur of (i) the Current Termination Date then in effect, or, if the Term Loan Election has been exercised, the Term Loan Repayment Date, and (ii) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to or .
Facility Termination Date
Section 2.05(a)
6.01
 
 means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
 means (a) that certain Credit Agreement (Five Year Facility), dated as of September 21, 2006, among the Borrowers and Caterpillar International Finance Limited (f/k/a Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c.), as borrowers thereunder, certain financial institutions party thereto, BTMU, as Japan Local Currency Agent, Citibank International plc, as Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, as agent for such banks, and (b) that certain Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility), dated as of September 20, 2007, among the Borrowers as borrowers thereunder, certain financial institutions party thereto, BTMU, as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, as agent for such banks, in each case, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Five-Year Credit Agreements
 
 means any federal, state, municipal, national or other government, governmental department, commission, board, bureau, court, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or any entity, officer or examiner exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to any government or any court, in each case whether associated with a state of the United States, the United States, or a foreign entity or government.
Governmental Authority
 
 means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated July 2009 in the form approved by the Borrowers concerning the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries which, at the Borrowers request and on their behalf, was prepared in relation to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and distributed by the Arranger to selected financial institutions before the date of this Agreement.
Information Memorandum
 
 means, on any date, any Subsidiary of Caterpillar or CFSC whose aggregate asset value, as reasonably calculated by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is at less than or equal to $50,000,000 on such date.
Insignificant Subsidiary
 
 means, for any period of determination, all interest (without duplication), whether paid in cash or accrued as a liability, on Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such period (including imputed interest on any capital lease of CFSC or its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Expense
 
 means, for each Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Advance, or the date of the Conversion, continuation or Redenomination, as applicable, of such Advance, and ending on the last day of the period selected by a Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be (a) in the case of a Base Rate Advance or a Japan Base Rate Advance, 30 days and (b) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a TIBO Rate Advance, 1, 2, 3 or 6 months, in each case as a Borrower may, in the Notice of Borrowing requesting such Advance, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 means, for any Interest Period or any other period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal to the rate of interest announced publicly by BTMU in Tokyo, Japan, from time to time, as BTMUs short-term base rate.
Japan Base Rate
 
 means a Japan Local Currency Advance which bears interest as provided in .
Japan Base Rate Advance
Section 2.07(a)
 
 means the local currency addendum dated as of the date hereof among CFC, CFSC, the Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, the Japan Local Currency Agent and the Agent, substantially in the form of .
Japan Local Currency Addendum
Exhibit G
 
 means any Advance in Japanese Yen, made to CFC pursuant to and and the Japan Local Currency Addendum.
Japan Local Currency Advance
Sections 2.03A
2.03B
 
 means BTMU, as agent under the Japan Local Currency Addendum, or any successor agent under the Japan Local Currency Addendum.
Japan Local Currency Agent
 
 means each Bank (or any Affiliate, branch or agency thereof) party to the Japan Local Currency Addendum.  In the event any agency, branch or Affiliate of a Bank shall be party to the Japan Local Currency Addendum, such agency, branch or Affiliate shall, to the extent of any commitment extended and any Advances made by it, have all the rights of such Bank hereunder; , , that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such Bank shall continue, to the exclusion of such agency or Affiliate, to have all the voting and consensual rights vested in it by the terms hereof.
Japan Local Currency Bank
provided
however
 
 means a borrowing comprised of simultaneous Japan Local Currency Advances made to CFC by each of the Japan Local Currency Banks pursuant to and and the Japan Local Currency Addendum.
Japan Local Currency Borrowing
Sections 2.03A
2.03B
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Japan Local Currency Commitment
Section 2.03A(a)
 
 means the lawful currency of Japan.
Japanese Yen
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Leverage Ratio
Section 5.04(a)
 
 means at any time Banks holding more than 50% of the Commitments, or if the Commitments have been terminated, Banks holding more than 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances.
Majority Banks
 
 means Japan Local Currency Banks holding more than 50% of the Japan Local Currency Commitments.
Majority Japan Local Currency Banks
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of March 31, 2009, among Caterpillar and CFSC as borrowers thereunder, certain financial institutions party thereto and Citibank, as agent for such banks, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
March 2009 Credit Agreement
 
 has the meaning set forth in Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Margin Stock
 
 means, for any Advance for any Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of (a) Caterpillar in the case of any Advance made to Caterpillar or (b) CFSC in the case of any Advance made to CFSC or CFC, as provided by the Quotation Agency for the one-year period beginning on the Rate Set Date (as defined below), appearing on the Quotation Agencys website as of 12:00 noon (New York City time) or otherwise delivered by the Quotation Agency to the Agent, in each case two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period (the ); , that (a) at all times prior to the Term Loan Effective Date, the Market Rate Spread shall in no event be (x) less than 1.00% per annum or (y) greater than 2.50% per annum and (b) on and after the Term Loan Effective Date, the Market Rate Spread shall equal 2.50% per annum; , , that in the event that the Market Rate Spread is not available from the Quotation Agency on the Rate Set Date for any Interest Period, the Market Rate Spread for such Interest Period shall be 2.50% per annum.
Market Rate Spread
Rate Set Date
provided
provided
further
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc. or any successor thereto, and if Moodys ceases to issue ratings of the type described herein with respect to the Borrowers, then the Borrowers and the Agent, with the consent of the Majority Banks, shall agree upon a mutually acceptable replacement debt rating agency and shall further agree, upon determination of such replacement agency, to determine appropriate equivalent ratings levels to replace those contained herein.
Moodys
 
 has the meaning as reflected in the financial caption Other income(expense), in CFSCs Consolidated Statement of Profit as compiled under generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives
 
 means, at any time, a Bank that is not a Defaulting Bank.
Non-Defaulting Bank
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Note
Section 2.02(f)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Notice of Allocation
Section 2.01(b)
 
 means a  Notice of Japan Local Currency Borrowing or a Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, as applicable.
Notice of Borrowing
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Notice of Japan Local Currency Borrowing
Section 2.03B(a)
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
Section 2.02(a)
 
 means, with respect to a Bank, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Bank and/or any Person owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Bank.
Parent Company
 
 means (a) with respect to Advances other than Japan Local Currency Advances, (i) for Dollars, the principal office of Citibank in New York City, located on the date hereof at 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043, (ii) for any other Agreed Currency, the office of Citibank located on the date hereof at 1615 Brett Road, Building No. 3, New Castle, Delaware 19720; and (b) with respect to any Japan Local Currency Advance, the office of the Japan Local Currency Agent set forth in the Japan Local Currency Addendum, or in any case, such other office of the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, as shall be from time to time selected by it by written notice to the Borrowers and the Banks.
Payment Office
 
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
 means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), limited liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
 
 means any multiemployer plan or single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001 and subject to Title IV of ERISA, which is maintained, or at any time during the five calendar years preceding the date of this Agreement was maintained, for employees of a Borrower or a Subsidiary of such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
 
 means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Pounds Sterling
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of September 18, 2008, among the Borrowers, the financial institutions party thereto, Citibank, as agent for such financial institutions, and BTMU, as Japan Local Currency Agent, as amended from time to time prior to the date hereof.
Prior Agreement
 
 means Caterpillar Purchase Claims or CFSC Purchase Claims, or both, as applicable.
Purchase Claims
 
 means Markit Group Limited or any successor thereto.
Quotation Agency
 
,  and  each refer to the redenomination of Term Loan Advances comprising all or part of the same Borrowing from an Agreed Currency to Dollars or from Dollars to another Agreed Currency, or the continuation of such Advances in the same Agreed Currency, in each case pursuant to , or .
Redenominate
Redenomination
Redenominated
Section 2.03(b)
2.10
2.15
 
 means Citibank and Socit Gnrale.
Reference Banks
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 8.07(c)
 
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and such Persons and such Persons Affiliates respective managers, administrators, members, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, fund managers and advisors.
Related Parties
 
 means material non-public information with respect to any of the Borrowers or their securities.
Restricting Information
 
 means an advance by a Bank to a Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, each of which shall be a  of Advance.
Revolving Credit Advance
Type
 
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made to a Borrower by each of the Banks pursuant to .
Revolving Credit Borrowing
Section 2.01
 
 means, for each Bank, the obligation of such Bank to make Revolving Credit Advances in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Banks name under the Revolving Credit Commitment heading on Schedule I hereto, or on the signature page of the Assignment and Acceptance or Assumption and Acceptance by which it became a Bank hereunder, as such amount may be increased or reduced pursuant to the terms of this Agreement; , , that if such Banks Japan Local Currency Commitment is terminated in whole or in part without a corresponding reduction or termination of the Commitments, then such Banks Revolving Credit Commitment shall equal the sum of (x) the amount set forth as such Banks Revolving Credit Commitment on Schedule I to this Agreement or on such Banks signature page to its Assignment and Acceptance or its Assumption and Acceptance, as applicable, plus (y) the amount of such Banks terminated Japan Local Currency Commitment.  No such change shall result in a Banks Revolving Credit Commitment exceeding its Commitment.  For each Bank that is not a Japan Local Currency Bank, such Banks Revolving Credit Commitment will be equal to its Commitment.  For each Bank that is a Japan Local Currency Bank, such Banks Revolving Credit Commitment will be equal to its Commitment its Japan Local Currency Commitment.
Revolving Credit Commitment
provided
however
minus
 
 means, at any time, the aggregate outstanding Revolving Credit Advances at such time.
Revolving Credit Obligations
 
 means the earlier to occur of (i) the Current Termination Date then in effect and (ii) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to or .
Revolving Credit Termination Date
Section 2.05(a)
6.01
 
 means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto, and if S&P ceases to issue ratings of the type described herein with respect to the Borrowers, then the Borrowers and the Agent, with the consent of the Majority Banks, shall agree upon a mutually acceptable replacement debt rating agency and shall further agree, upon determination of such replacement agency, to determine appropriate equivalent ratings levels to replace those contained herein.
S&P
 
 means, with respect to any Borrower, a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Borrower or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by such Borrower and one or more other Subsidiaries.  For the purposes of this definition, voting stock means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
 
 means that certain Support Agreement dated as of December 21, 1984, amended June 14, 1995, between Caterpillar and CFSC, as the same may be amended or modified in accordance with the terms of and in effect from time to time.
Support Agreement
Section 5.04(c)
 
 means the lawful currency of Switzerland.
Swiss Francs
 
 has the meaning set forth in .
Term Loan Advance
Section 2.17
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Term Loan Effective Date
Section 2.17
 
 has the meaning set forth in .
Term Loan Election
Section 2.17
 
 has the meaning set forth in .
Term Loan Election Fee
Section 2.17
 
 means, upon the exercise by the Borrowers of the Term Loan Election, the date which is one year after the Current Termination Date in effect on the date of the election of the Term Loan Election.
Term Loan Repayment Date
 
 means, with respect to a TIBO Rate Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the applicable Japanese Yen TIBOR interest rate displayed by the Japan Bankers Association on Reuters Screen 17097 as of 11:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period; , , that if Reuters Screen 17097 is not available to the Japan Local Currency Agent for any reason, the applicable TIBO Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Japan Local Currency Agent as the arithmetic average (rounded upward, if necessary, to an integral multiple of 1/16 of 1%) of the rates per annum (or the rate per annum, in the event there is only one Japan Local Currency Bank) reported to the Japan Local Currency Agent by each Japan Local Currency Bank as the rate at which such Japan Local Currency Bank offers to place deposits in Japanese Yen with leading banks in the Tokyo interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, in the approximate amount of such Japan Local Currency Banks relevant TIBO Rate Advance and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
TIBO Rate
provided
however
 
 means a Japan Local Currency Advance which bears interest at a rate based on the TIBO Rate as provided in .
TIBO Rate Advance
Section 2.07(c)
 
 means, at any time, the sum of all of the Banks Commitments at such time.
Total Commitment
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Total Japan Local Currency Commitment
Section 2.03A(a)
 
 means, at any time, the sum of all of the Banks Revolving Credit Commitments at such time (which shall be an amount equal to the Total Commitment at such time the aggregate Dollar Amount of the Total Japan Local Currency Commitment at such time).
Total Revolving Credit Commitment
minus
 
, when used in reference to any Revolving Credit Advance, has the meaning specified in the definition of Revolving Credit Advance, and when used in reference to a Japan Local Currency Advance, refers to a Japan Base Rate Advance or a TIBO Rate Advance, each of which shall be a Type of Advance.
Type
 
 means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56,115 Stat. 272 (2001), as amended.
USA Patriot Act
 
SECTION 1.02.  .  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word from means from and including and the words to and until each means to but excluding.
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03.  .  All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in and all references contained herein to generally accepted accounting principles shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Terms
Section 4.01(e)
 
 
.
SECTION 2.01.
The Revolving Credit Advances; Allocation of Commitments
 
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 2.02.
Making the Revolving Credit Advances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 2.03.
Voluntary Conversion or Continuation of Term Loan Advances
 
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.03A.  
Terms of Japan Local Currency Facility
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.03B.  
Making the Japan Local Currency Advances
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.04.  .
Fees
 
 
 
The Facility Fees allocable to each of Caterpillar and CFSC shall be the several obligation of each.
 
 
  .
SECTION 2.05.
Reduction of the Commitments; Bank Additions
 
 
 
 
Upon such execution, delivery and acceptance, from and after the effective date specified in each Assumption and Acceptance, the Added Bank shall, in addition to the rights and obligations hereunder held by it immediately prior to such effective date (if any), have the rights and obligations hereunder that have been assumed by it pursuant to such Assumption and Acceptance and, in the case of a bank not previously a Bank hereunder, shall become a Bank hereunder.
 
By executing and delivering an Assumption and Acceptance, each Added Bank confirms to and agrees with each party hereto as follows:  (i) neither the Agent nor any Bank makes any representation or warranty, nor assumes any responsibility with respect to, any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (ii) neither the Agent nor any Bank makes any representation or warranty, nor assumes any responsibility with respect to, the financial condition of any Borrower or the performance or observance by any Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto.
 
The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assumption and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it.  Such copies shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers or any Bank at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 8.02
 
Upon its receipt of an Assumption and Acceptance executed by an Added Bank and the Borrowers, the Agent shall, if such Assumption and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of hereto, (i) accept such Assumption and Acceptance, and (ii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrowers.  Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of such notice, if requested by an Added Bank, each Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Agent a new Note or Notes to the order of such Added Bank.  Such new Note or Notes shall be dated the effective date of such Assumption and Acceptance and shall otherwise be in substantially the form of hereto.
Exhibit C-2
Exhibit A
 
 
.  Each Borrower shall repay the principal amount (or the portion thereof remaining after giving effect to any earlier partial prepayments thereof) of each Advance made to such Borrower by each Bank (other than a Term Loan Advance) on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance.  Each Borrower shall repay the principal amount (or the portion thereof remaining after giving effect to any earlier partial repayment thereof) of each Term Loan Advance outstanding to such Borrower from each Bank on the Term Loan Repayment Date.
SECTION 2.06.
Repayment of Advances
 
.  Each Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance made to such Borrower by each Bank from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
SECTION 2.07.
Interest on Advances
 
 
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.08.
Interest Rate Determination
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.09.
Prepayments of Advances
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.10.
Increased Costs; Capital Adequacy; Illegality
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
SECTION 2.11.
Payments and Computations
 
 
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 2.12.
Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  If any Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances made by it (other than pursuant to , , , or ) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Revolving Credit Advances obtained by all the Banks, such Bank shall forthwith notify the Agent thereof and purchase from the other Banks such participations in the Revolving Credit Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Bank, such purchase from each Bank shall be rescinded and such Bank shall repay to the purchasing Bank the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Banks ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Banks required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered.  Each Borrower agrees that any Bank so purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Bank were the direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
SECTION 2.13.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
Sections 2.02(c)
2.05(d)
2.10
2.12
8.04
provided
however
Section 2.13
 
  .  Each Bank that is not a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code), other than any Japan Local Currency Bank that is an Affiliate, branch or agency of a Bank, shall submit to the Borrowers and the Agent, on or before the Closing Date (or in the case of any Person becoming a Bank hereunder pursuant to or , on or before the date of acceptance by the Agent of the applicable Assumption and Acceptance or Assignment and Acceptance), duly completed and signed copies of either Form W-8BEN (relating to such Bank and entitling it to a complete exemption from withholding on all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, under this Agreement) or Form W-8-ECI (relating to all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, under this Agreement) of the United States Internal Revenue Service and Form W-8BEN (relating to the foreign status exemption from United States federal income tax backup withholding), or, in any such case, such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities.  Thereafter and from time to time, each such Bank shall, to the extent that it may lawfully do so, submit to the Borrowers and the Agent such additional duly completed and signed copies of one or the other of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may be (i) requested by the Borrowers or the Agent from such Bank and (ii) required under then-current United States law or regulations to determine the United States withholding taxes on payment in respect of all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, under this Agreement.  Upon the request of the Borrowers or the Agent, each Bank that is a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) shall submit to the Borrowers and the Agent a certificate to the effect that it is such a United States person.  If any Bank determines that it is unable to submit to the Borrowers and the Agent any form or certificate that such Bank is obligated to submit pursuant to this , or that such Bank is required to withdraw or cancel any such form or certificate previously submitted, such Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Agent of such fact.
SECTION 2.14.
Tax Forms
Section 2.05(c)
Section 8.07
Section 2.14
 
.
SECTION 2.15.
Market Disruption; Denomination of Amounts in Dollars
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 2.16.
Extensions of the Commitments
 
 
 
 
 
  .  Each of Caterpillar and CFSC, at least ten (10) Business Days prior to the then effective Current Termination Date, may elect to convert, as of such Current Termination Date, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding to it into one-year term loan Advances denominated in currencies permitted hereunder (each such Advance upon such conversion, a , and such election, the ); , , that such elections shall not be available to the Borrowers, and such conversions shall not be made, if (a) an Event of Default or unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is outstanding on or prior to the date of such election or the date on which such conversion is to occur, (b) the then effective Current Termination Date has been extended, or (c) the Revolving Credit Termination Date has occurred as a result of an event described in of the definition thereof.  The conversion of Advances into Term Loan Advances pursuant to a Term Loan Election shall become effective on the Current Termination Date (the ) upon the payment by the Borrower(s) making the Term Loan Election of a fee in an amount equal to 1.00% times the aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan Advances on such date (the ), which Term Loan Election Fee shall be non-refundable and shall be payable in immediately available funds to the Agent, for the ratable account of each Bank.  Each such Term Loan Advance shall continue to be part of the Borrowing that it was a part of at the time of the Term Loan Effective Date.  The aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan Advances, together with all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and all outstanding fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection herewith, shall be due and payable on the Term Loan Repayment Date.   No amount repaid in respect of a Term Loan Advance may be reborrowed.
SECTION 2.17.
Term Loan Election
Term Loan Advance
Term Loan Election
provided
however
clause (ii)
Term Loan Effective Date
Term Loan Election Fee
 
.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Bank becomes a Defaulting Bank, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Bank is a Defaulting Bank:
SECTION 2.18.
Defaulting Banks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  The obligation of each Bank to make its initial Advance on or after the Closing Date is subject to the conditions precedent that (i) all principal, accrued interest, fees, expenses, costs and other amounts outstanding under the terms of the Prior Agreement, accrued to the Closing Date, shall have been paid, and the commitments of the lenders thereunder to extend credit shall have terminated, (ii) the Agent shall have received, for the benefit of the Banks, the one-time upfront fees due and payable on the Closing Date pursuant to the letter agreement dated as of September 17, 2009 (as amended or modified), among the Borrowers, the Agent and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and (iii) the Agent shall have received on or before the day of the initial Borrowing the following, each dated the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and in sufficient copies for each Bank:
SECTION 3.01.
Conditions Precedent to Initial Advances
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, (i) the obligation of each Bank requesting Notes to make its initial Advance is subject to the further condition precedent that the Agent shall have received, on or before the day of the initial Borrowing, the Notes dated the Closing Date and payable to the order of such Bank, and (ii) the obligation of the Japan Local Currency Banks to make the initial Advances under the Japan Local Currency Addendum shall be subject to any further conditions set forth in the Japan Local Currency Addendum.
 
  .  The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing to any Borrower (including the initial Borrowing) shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing:
SECTION 3.02.
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing
 
 
 
 
 
  .  The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of any Borrowing to any Borrower which would increase the aggregate outstanding amount of Advances owing to such Bank over the aggregate amount of such Advances outstanding immediately prior to the making of such Advance shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by a Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing such statements are true):  (i) the representations and warranties contained in subsection (f) of are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which would constitute an Event of Default with respect to any Borrower but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
SECTION 3.03.
Conditions Precedent to Certain Borrowings
Section 4.01
 
 
 
  .  Each Borrower represents and warrants as of the Closing Date and on each date specified in , as follows:
SECTION 4.01.
Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers
Article III
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
SECTION 4.02.
Additional Representations and Warranties of CFSC and CFC
 
Each of CFSC and CFC represents and warrants that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is an investment company or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
 
 
  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, each Borrower (, that for purposes of , , , , , , and , the term Borrower refers to each of Caterpillar and CFSC, but not to CFC) will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing:
SECTION 5.01.
Affirmative Covenants
provided
Sections 5.01(f)(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(v)
(vi)
(viii)
(ix)
(x)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, no Borrower will, without the written consent of the Majority Banks:
SECTION 5.02.
Negative Covenants
 
 
 
.  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, Caterpillar will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, maintain at all times during each fiscal year of Caterpillar, Consolidated Net Worth of not less than $9,000,000,000.
SECTION 5.03.
Financial Covenant of Caterpillar
 
  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, CFSC will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing:
SECTION 5.04.
Financial and Other Covenants of CFSC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  If any of the following events () shall occur and be continuing with respect to any Borrower:
SECTION 6.01.
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, , that the filing of one or more of the proceedings and/or the occurrence of one or more of the other events described in this Section 6.01(e) with respect to any Insignificant Subsidiary shall not constitute an Event of Default hereunder until such time as the aggregate of the asset values, as reasonably determined by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of all Insignificant Subsidiaries subject to the proceedings and/or other events described in this Section 6.01(e) equals or exceeds $250,000,000 (with each Insignificant Subsidiarys asset value being determined, for purposes of this clause (e), on the date on which such filing or other event commences or otherwise initially occurs with respect to such Insignificant Subsidiary and with such value remaining in effect for such Insignificant Subsidiary once determined); or
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
then, and in any such event, (i) the Agent (x) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Banks, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to such Borrower to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (y) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Banks, by notice to such Borrower, declare the Advances to such Borrower, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon such Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by such Borrower; and (ii) in the case of a CFSC Event of Default or a CFC Event of Default, the Japan Local Currency Agent, (x) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Japan Local Currency Bank to make Japan Local Currency Advances to CFC to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (y) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks, by notice to CFC, declare the Japan Local Currency Advances to CFC, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon such Japan Local Currency Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by CFC; , , upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to any Borrower described in , (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to any Borrower shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances to the Borrowers, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.  Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the fact that an Event of Default exists with respect to one of the Borrowers hereunder shall not of itself constitute an Event of Default with respect to any of the other Borrowers, , , that in the case of CFC, any CFSC Event of Default shall be a CFC Event of Default.
provided
however
Section 6.01(e)
provided
however
 
 
 
  .  Each Bank hereby appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article VII are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Banks, and no Borrower shall have any rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
SECTION 7.01.
Appointment and Authority
 
  
SECTION 7.02.
Agent Individually.
 
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 7.03.
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
  .  Each of the Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  Each of the Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Bank or the Japan Local Currency Bank, the Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Bank or the Japan Local Currency Bank, as applicable unless an officer of the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Bank or such Japan Local Currency Bank, as applicable prior to the making of such Advance, and in the case of a Borrowing, such Bank or such Japan Local Currency Bank, as applicable, shall not have made available to the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent, as applicable, such Banks or such Japan Local Currency Banks, as applicable, ratable portion of such Borrowing.  The Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
SECTION 7.04.
Reliance by Agent
 
.  The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under the Japan Local Currency Addendum by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent.  The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VII and Section 8.04 (as though such sub-agents were the Agent hereunder or under the Japan Local currency Addendum) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
SECTION 7.05.
Delegation of Duties
 
  .  The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Banks and the Borrowers.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Majority Banks shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrowers, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in New York, New York.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Majority Banks and shall have accepted such appointment within 60 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 60-day period, the ), then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Banks, a successor Agent, the retiring Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Bank Appointment Period notify the Borrowers and the Banks that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Agent and the effective date of such retiring Agents resignation which effective date shall be no earlier than three business days after the date of such notice.  Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Agents resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Bank directly, until such time as the Majority Banks appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this paragraph.  Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph).  The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor.  After the retiring Agents resignation hereunder, or any retiring Japan Local Currency Agents resignation or removal under the Japan Local Currency Addendum, the provisions of this Article VII and Section 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent or Japan Local Currency Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent or the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent was acting as Japan Local Currency Agent.
SECTION 7.06.
Resignation of Agent
Bank Appointment Period
 
  .
SECTION 7.07.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Banks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Persons acting as Bookrunners or Arrangers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent or as a Bank hereunder.
SECTION 7.08.
No Other Duties, etc
 
  .  To the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers  in accordance with Section 8.4 hereof, the Banks agree to indemnify the Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Advances, Japan Local Currency Advances, or Term Loan Advances, as applicable, then held by each of them (or if no Revolving Credit Advances or Japan Local Currency Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments or Japan Local Currency Commitments, as applicable), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any action taken or omitted by the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent under this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum; that no Bank shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agents or the Japan Local Currency Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Bank agrees to reimburse the Agent and the Japan Local Currency Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share (determined as specified in the first sentence of this ) of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiation, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum, to the extent that the Agent or the Japan Local Currency Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrowers.
SECTION 7.09.
Indemnification
provided
Section 7.09
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 8.01.
Amendments, Etc
 
 
 
  
SECTION 8.02.
Notices; Communications, Etc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  No failure on the part of any party hereto to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder, under the Japan Local Currency Addendum or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
SECTION 8.03.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
  .
SECTION 8.04.
Costs, Expenses and Taxes
 
 
 
 
  .  Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default with respect to a Borrower and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances to such Borrower due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Bank is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Bank to or for the credit or the account of such Borrower against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum, and any Note of such Borrower held by such Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum, or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured.  Each Bank agrees to immediately notify such Borrower by telecopy after any such set-off and application made by such Bank, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set off and application.  The rights of each Bank under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which such Bank may have.
SECTION 8.05.
Right of Set-off
 
.  This Agreement shall be deemed to have become effective as of September 17, 2009 when it shall have been executed by the Borrowers, the Japan Local Currency Agent, and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrowers, the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, and each Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that no Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all the Banks.
SECTION 8.06.
Binding Effect
 
.
SECTION 8.07.
Assignments and Participations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .
SECTION 8.08.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Service of Process
 
 
 
 
.  CFSC and CFC hereby appoint Caterpillar as their agent for purposes of giving notice to or otherwise advising the Agent or the Banks in such instances where this Agreement calls for notice or advice from the Borrowers rather than from a specific Borrower (Caterpillar, in such capacity, being referred to herein as the ).  CFC hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest possible extent, any defense of forum non conveniens.
SECTION 8.09.
Caterpillar as Agent for the Borrowers
Borrower Agent
 
.  If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due under this Agreement, under the Japan Local Currency Addendum or under any of the Notes in any currency (the ) into another currency (the ), the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Agent could purchase the Original Currency with the Other Currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the obligation of any Borrower in respect to any sum due in the Original Currency to the Agent or any Bank shall, notwithstanding any judgment in an Other Currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Agent or such Bank, as applicable, of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Other Currency, the Agent or such Bank, as applicable, may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Original Currency with the Other Currency; if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Agent or such Bank, as applicable, in the Original Currency, the applicable Borrower or Borrowers agree, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Agent or such Bank, as applicable, against such loss, and if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due the Agent or such Bank in the Original Currency, the Agent or such Bank, as applicable, agrees to remit to the applicable Borrower or Borrowers such excess.
SECTION 8.10.
Judgment Currency
Original Currency
Other Currency
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  A facsimile or PDF copy of any signature hereto shall have the same effect as the original of such signature.
SECTION 8.11.
Execution in Counterparts
 
.  EACH BORROWER, THE AGENT, THE JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY AGENT, EACH BANK AND EACH JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY BANK IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, AMONG ANY OF THE PARTIES HERETO ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT, THE JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY ADDENDUM, OR ANY NOTE.  ANY PARTY HERETO MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE PARTIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY.
SECTION 8.12.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
  .  The following notification is provided to the Borrowers pursuant to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act:
SECTION 8.13.
USA Patriot Act Notification
 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW ACCOUNT.  To help the government of the United States of America fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each Person that opens an account, including any deposit account, treasury management account, loan, other extension of credit, or other financial services product.  Accordingly, when any Borrower opens an account, the Agent and the Banks will ask for the Borrowers name, tax identification number (if applicable), business address, and other information that will allow the Agent and the Banks to identify such Borrower.  The Agent and the Banks may also ask to see such Borrowers legal organizational documents or other identifying documents.
 
.  Each of the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, each Bank and each Japan Local Currency Bank agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below) in accordance with its customary procedures, so long as such procedures provide for a reasonable standard of care (with such standard of care being at least the same standard of care as such Person would exercise to maintain the confidentiality of its own confidential information), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, members, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives who are involved in the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise have a need to know (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the administration of the facility and the exercise of any remedies hereunder, under the Japan Local Currency Addendum or under any other document related to or executed in connection herewith or therewith or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any other document related to or executed in connection herewith or therewith or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives), surety, reinsurer, guarantor or credit liquidity enhancer (or their advisors) to or in connection with any swap, derivative or other similar transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrowers and their respective obligations, or to this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) to any rating agency when required by it (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (g) with the consent of the Borrowers or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, any Bank, any Japan Local Currency Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrowers.
SECTION 8.14.
Confidentiality
 
For purposes of this Section,  means all information received from the Borrowers or any of their respective Subsidiaries relating to the Borrowers or any of their respective Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, any Bank and any Japan Local Currency Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrowers or any of their respective Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Borrowers or any of their respective Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information, but in no event less than a reasonable degree of care.
Information
provided
.
SECTION 8.15.
Treatment of Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  Citibank, as Agent under the Prior Agreement (the ), and each of the Banks party to the Prior Agreement (the ), hereby confirm that upon the Existing Agents receipt of all principal, accrued interest, fees, expenses, costs and other amounts outstanding under the Prior Agreement, and the Existing Agents distribution of such amounts to the Existing Banks and any other parties entitled thereto, the Prior Agreement and the commitments of the Existing Banks thereunder shall be terminated, and all of the Borrowers obligations to the Existing Agent and the Existing Banks under the Prior Agreement shall be terminated (other than contingent indemnity obligations and any other obligations which by the terms of the Prior Agreement expressly survive the termination of the Prior Agreement).  Each of the Borrowers hereby acknowledges and agrees to the termination of the Prior Agreement pursuant to this .
SECTION 8.16.
Termination of Prior Agreement
Existing Agent
Existing Banks
Section 8.16
 
 
  .  CFSC hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the due and punctual payment (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on each Advance to CFC, and the due and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by CFC under this Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum.  Upon failure by CFC to pay punctually any such amount, CFSC shall forthwith on demand pay the amount not so paid at the place, in the manner and with the effect otherwise specified in of this Agreement.
SECTION 9.01.
The Guaranty
Article II
 
  .  The obligations of CFSC under this shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by:
SECTION 9.02.
Guaranty Unconditional
Article IX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  .  CFSCs obligations under this shall remain in full force and effect until the Commitments are terminated and the principal of and interest on the Advances to CFC and all other amounts payable by CFSC and CFC under this Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum shall have been paid in full and shall survive the Current Termination Date, the Extended Termination Date and the Term Loan Repayment Date, as applicable.  If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest on any Advance to CFC or any other amount payable by CFC under this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of CFC or otherwise, CFSCs obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had been due but not made at such time.
SECTION 9.03.
Discharge Only Upon Payment In Full; Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances
Article IX
 
  .  CFSC irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any right be exhausted or any action be taken by the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, any Bank or any other Person against CFC or any other Person or any collateral security.  CFSC waives any benefit of the collateral, if any, which may from time to time secure the Advances to CFC or any of CFCs other obligations under this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum, and authorizes the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, or the Banks to take any action or exercise any remedy with respect thereto which the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, or the Banks in its or their discretion shall determine, without notice to CFSC.  In the event the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, or the Banks elect to give notice of any action with respect to any such collateral, ten (10) days written notice mailed to CFSC by certified mail at its address set forth in shall be deemed reasonable notice of any matters contained in such notice.
SECTION 9.04.
Waiver by CFSC
Section 8.02
 
  .  Upon making any payment hereunder, CFSC shall be subrogated to the rights of the Banks against CFC with respect to such payment; that CFSC shall not enforce any right or demand or receive any payment by way of subrogation until all amounts of principal of and interest on the Advances to CFC and all other amounts payable by CFC under this Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum have been paid in full.
SECTION 9.05.
Subrogation
provided
 
.  In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by CFC under this Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of CFC, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by CFSC hereunder forthwith on demand by the Agent for the account of the Banks.
SECTION 9.06.  
Stay of Acceleration
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  __________, 200_
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [Caterpillar Inc./Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation] (the Borrower), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of ______________
(the Bank) for the account of its Applicable Lending Office (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal amount of each Advance (as defined below) made by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement (as defined below) on the last day of the Interest Period (as defined in the Credit Agreement) occurring on or prior to the Term Loan Effective Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for such Advance, and on the Term Loan Repayment Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement) if the Term Loan Election (as defined in the Credit Agreement) is made.
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
 
Both principal and interest are payable in the currency and to the office of the Agent specified pursuant to the Credit Agreement, in same day funds.  Each Advance made by the Bank to the Borrower and the maturity thereof, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Bank and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
 
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement) among the Borrower, [names of the other Borrowers under the Credit Agreement] (together with the Borrower, the Borrowers) the Bank and certain other banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Bank and such other banks.  The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of advances (the Advances) by the Bank to the Borrowers from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time such Banks Commitment (as defined in the Credit Agreement) at such time (the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance to the Borrower being evidenced by this Promissory Note), and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind.  No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
 
This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, United States (including Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Laws of the State of New York but otherwise without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof).
 
[CATERPILLAR INC./CATERPILLAR
FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION]
By                             
                                         
Title:
 
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Banks parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Rd., Building No. 3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications
 
Citibank, N.A.
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention:  Marianne ODonnell
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, [Caterpillar Inc./Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation], refers to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement, the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, [names of the other Borrowers under the Credit Agreement], certain Banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Banks, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing) as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Section 2.02
Section 2.02(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing:
 
 
 
 
Very truly yours,
 
[CATERPILLAR INC./CATERPILLAR
FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION]
By                  
                                                    
      Title:
           To be included in Notices of Revolving Credit Borrowing pursuant to Section 3.02, unless Section 3.03 shall apply.
1
           To be included in Notices of Revolving Credit Borrowing pursuant to Section 3.03.
2
 
           To be included in Notices of Revolving Credit Borrowing from CFSC.
3
 
 
 
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.,
  as Japan Local Currency Agent
Corporate Banking Division No. 3, Corporate Banking Group
7-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Attention:  Mr. Shu Ohsuga
 
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Banks parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Rd., Building No. 3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention:  Bank Loan Syndications
 
Citibank N.A.
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention:  Marianne ODonnell
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, refers to (1) the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement, the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (CFSC), certain Banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Banks, and (2) the Japan Local Currency Addendum dated as of September 17, 2009, among the undersigned, CFSC, the Japan Local Currency Banks party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent (the Addendum).  The undersigned hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement and the Addendum that the undersigned hereby requests a Japan Local Currency Borrowing under the Credit Agreement and the Addendum, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Japan Local Currency Borrowing (the Proposed Borrowing) as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Section 2.03B
Section 2.03B
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
 
 
 
Very truly yours,
CATERPILLAR FINANCE CORPORATION
 
By              
                                                        
 
          To be included in Notices of Borrowing pursuant to Section 3.02, unless Section 3.03 shall apply.
4
          To be included in Notices of Borrowing pursuant to Section 3.03.
5
 
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Banks parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Rd., Building No. 3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications
 
Citibank, N.A.
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention:  Marianne ODonnell
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Caterpillar Inc., as Borrower Agent on behalf of itself, Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (the Borrowers), refers to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement, the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrowers, certain Banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Bank, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Banks, and hereby gives you notice, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the Borrowers request a re-allocation of the Total Commitment, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such re-allocation as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Section 2.01(b)
Section 2.01(b)
 
 
 
 
Very truly yours,
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:                    
                                                  
       Title:
 
 
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Banks parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Rd., Building No. 3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications
 
Citibank, N.A.
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention:  Marianne ODonnell
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (the Borrowers), refer to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement, the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrowers, certain Banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Banks, and hereby give you notice, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the Borrowers request a Bank Addition, and in that connection set forth below the information relating to such proposed Bank Addition (the Proposed Bank Addition) as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Section 2.05(c)
Section 2.05(c)
 
 
 ______________________________
   
   
 ______________________________
   
   
 ______________________________
   
   
 
 
Very truly yours,
CATERPILLAR INC.
By: ______________________________
       Title:
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
By: ______________________________
       Title:
CATERPILLAR FINANCE CORPORATION
By: ______________________________
       Title:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (the Borrowers), the Banks (as defined in the Credit Agreement), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Banks (the Agent).  Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
 
_____________ (the Assignor) and ___________________ (the Assignee) agree as follows:
 
1.  The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, the percentage interest specified on hereto in and to all of the Assignors rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof (after giving effect to any other assignments thereof made prior to the date hereof, whether or not such assignments have become effective, but without giving effect to any other assignments thereof also made on the date hereof), including, without limitation, such percentage interest in (i) the Assignors Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment, which on the date hereof (after giving effect to any other assignments thereof made prior to the date hereof, whether or not such assignments have become effective, but without giving effect to any other assignments thereof also made on the date hereof) are in the dollar amounts specified as the Assignors Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment on hereto, which Commitment is allocated between Caterpillar and CFSC, the Assignors Allocated Commitment for each such Borrower as of the date hereof being set forth on hereto; [(ii) the Assignors Japan Local Currency Commitment, which on the date hereof (after giving effect to any other assignments thereof made prior to the date hereof, whether or not such assignments have become effective, but without giving effect to any other assignments thereof also made on the date hereof) is in the dollar amount specified as the Assignors Japan Local Currency Commitment on hereto; (ii)/(iii)] the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Advances owing to the Assignor by each Borrower, which on the date hereof (after giving effect to any other assignments thereof made prior to the date hereof, whether or not such assignments have become effective, but without giving effect to any other assignments thereof also made on the date hereof) is in the dollar amount specified as the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Advances owing to the Assignor from such Borrower on hereto; and (iii)/(iv) the Notes, if any, held by the Assignor.
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
6
Schedule 1
 
2.  The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of any Borrower or the performance or observance by any Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iv) attaches the Notes, if any, referred to in paragraph 1 above and requests that the Agent exchange each such Note from each Borrower for a new Note executed by such Borrower payable to the order of the Assignee or new Notes executed by such Borrower payable to the order of the Assignee and the Assignor, as applicable.
 
3.  Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance by the Assignor and the Assignee, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance by the Agent.  The effective date of this Assignment and Acceptance shall be the date of acceptance thereof by the Agent, unless a later date therefor is specified on hereto (the Effective Date).
Schedule 1
 
4.  Upon such acceptance by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall, in addition to the rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement [and the Japan Local Currency Addendum] held by it immediately prior to the Effective Date, have the rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement [and the Japan Local Currency Addendum] that have been assigned to it pursuant to this Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement [and the Japan Local Currency Addendum].
7
8
9
 
5.  Upon such acceptance by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent [and the Japan Local Currency Agent] shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement  [,the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and the Notes, if any, in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest, and Facility Fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee.  The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement [, the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and the Notes, if any, for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
10
11
12
 
6.  This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York (including Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Laws of the State of New York but otherwise without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof).
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written, such execution being made on hereto.
Schedule 1
           Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
7
 
           Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
8
 
           Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
9
 
          Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
10
 
          Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
11
 
          Applicable if Assignor is a Japan Local Currency Bank.
12
 
 
 
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
By:___________________________
      Title:
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
By:___________________________
     Title:
 
Consented to and Accepted this _____ day
of _________________, 200_
 
 
[NAME OF AGENT], as Agent
 
By:___________________________
 
      Title:
 
 
[NAME OF JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY AGENT], as Japan Local Currency Agent
 
By:___________________________
 
     Title:
 
Agreed to this _____ day
of _____________, 200_
14
 
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
 
By:___________________________
 
      Title:
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
 
By:___________________________
 
     Title:
 
          This date should be no earlier than the date of acceptance by the Agent.
13
 
          To be included when consent of the Borrowers is required pursuant to .
14
Section 8.07(a)(i)
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Credit Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (the Borrowers), the Banks (as defined in the Credit Agreement), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Bank and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Banks (the Agent).  Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
 
The Borrowers and ___________________ (the Added Bank) agree as follows:
 
1.  The Borrowers have requested the Added Bank to [become a Bank under the Credit Agreement and to accept and make a Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment [and Japan Local Currency Commitment] under the Credit Agreement in the amounts set forth on hereto] [increase its Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment [and Japan Local Currency Commitment] under the Credit Agreement to the amounts set forth on hereto] and the Added Bank has agreed to so [become a Bank and accept and make a Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment [and Japan Local Currency Commitment] under the Credit Agreement in such amounts] [increase its Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment [and Japan Local Currency Commitment] under the Credit Agreement to such amounts].  The Added Bank agrees, upon the Effective Date of this Assumption and Acceptance, to purchase a participation in any Revolving Credit Advances [Japan Local Currency Advances] which are outstanding on the Effective Date in the amount determined pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Schedule 1
15
Schedule 1
16
17
18
Section 2.05(d)
 
2.  The Added Bank hereby acknowledges and agrees that neither the Agent nor any Bank (i) has made any representation or warranty, nor assumed any responsibility, with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; or (ii) has made any representation or warranty, nor assumed any responsibility, with respect to the financial condition of any Borrower or the performance or observance by any Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto.
 
3.  Following the execution of this Assumption and Acceptance by the Added Bank and the Borrowers, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance by the Agent.  The effective date of this Assumption and Acceptance shall be the date of acceptance thereof by the Agent, unless a later date therefor is specified on hereto (the Effective Date).
Schedule 1
 
4.  Upon such acceptance by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Added Bank shall, in addition to the rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement held by it immediately prior to the Effective Date, if any, have the rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement that have been assumed by it pursuant to this Assumption and Acceptance.
 
5.  Upon such acceptance by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement and the Notes, if any, in respect of the Commitment and Revolving Credit Commitment [and Japan Local Currency Commitment] assumed hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and Facility Fees with respect thereto) to the Added Bank.
 
6.  This Assumption and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York (including Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Laws of the State of New York but otherwise without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof).
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Added Bank and the Borrowers have caused this Assumption and Acceptance to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written, such execution being made on hereto.
Schedule 1
 
          To be used if the Added Bank is not already a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
15
 
          To be used if the Added Bank is already a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
16
 
          To be used if the Added Bank is not already a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
17
 
          To be used if the Added Bank is already a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
18
 
 
 
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:___________________________
      Title:
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL
SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Title:
CATERPILLAR FINANCE CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Title:
[NAME OF ADDED BANK]
By:___________________________
      Title:
Accepted this _____ day
of _________________, 200_
 
[NAME OF AGENT]
 
By:___________________________
     Title:
          This date should be no earlier than the date of acceptance by the Agent.
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To each of the Banks parties
to the Credit Agreement
(364-Day Facility) dated as of
September 17, 2009, among
Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation,
Caterpillar Finance Corporation,
said Banks, Citibank, N.A., as Agent,
and The Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan
Local Currency Agent
 
 
Re:  [Name of Applicable Borrower]
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I am [General Counsel/General Attorney] of [Name of Applicable Borrower], a [Type of Organization] (the Borrower), and give this opinion pursuant to of the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009 (the Credit Agreement), among the Borrower, [names of other Borrowers under the Credit Agreement], the Banks parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Banks.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Section 3.01(d)
 
I have examined the Credit Agreement; [the Japan Local Currency Addendum;] the documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement; the [Certificate of Incorporation] of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the Charter); and the [bylaws] of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the Bylaws).  In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Borrower, certificates of public officials, and agreements, instruments and other documents, and have conducted such other investigations of fact and law, as I have deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of this opinion.
Article III
 
In rendering my opinion, I have assumed the due authorization, execution and delivery of each document referred to herein by all parties to such document other than the Borrower.
 
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the comments and qualifications set forth below, it is my opinion that:
 
1.  The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the [INSERT APPROPRIATE JURISDICTION] and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in every jurisdiction in which failure to qualify may materially adversely affect (i) the financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (ii) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement [, the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and its Notes.
20
 
2.  The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement [,the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and the Notes to be executed by it are within the Borrowers corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene, or constitute a default under (i) the Charter or the Bylaws or (ii) in any material respect, any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower or (iii) any material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower.
21
 
3.  No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement [, the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and the Notes to be executed by it.
22
 
4.  The Credit Agreement [, the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and its Notes have been duly executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower.  Assuming that the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent, and each Bank party to the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof have duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement and that each such Bank has notified the Agent that such Bank has executed the Credit Agreement, [, and assuming that the Japan Local Currency Agent and each Japan Local Currency Bank party to the Japan Local Currency Addendum as of the date hereof have duly executed and delivered the Japan Local Currency Addendum and that each such Japan Local Currency Bank has notified the Agent that such Japan Local Currency Bank has executed the Japan Local Currency Addendum] the Credit Agreement is, [the Japan Local Currency Addendum is,] the Notes executed and delivered by the Borrower on or prior to the date hereof are, and any other Notes when executed and delivered by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement will be, the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally and by the effect of general principles of equity.
23
 
5.  There is no pending or, to my actual knowledge, threatened action or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator, which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement [,the Japan Local Currency Addendum,] or any Note or which is reasonably likely to materially adversely affect (i) the financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (ii) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement [,the Japan Local Currency Addendum] and the Notes to be executed by it.
 
I express no opinion as to (i) and of the Credit Agreement, insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto to may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Banks claims under the Credit Agreement or the Notes or (ii) , or , to the extent that any such section may be construed as requiring indemnification with respect to a claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by a Bank, the Agent [or the Japan Local Currency Agent].
Sections 2.13
8.05
Section 2.12(c)
7.09
8.04(c)
 
I am qualified to practice law in the State of [_______] and do not purport to be an expert on, or to express any opinion concerning, any laws other than the law of the State of [_______], the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal law of the United States.  Insofar as the opinions expressed in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above relate to matters which are governed by the laws of the State of New York, I have assumed for purposes of rendering such opinions that the applicable laws of the State of New York are substantially identical to the laws of the State of [_______].
 
This opinion is limited to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly set forth herein.  The opinions expressed herein are being delivered to you as of the date hereof in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and are solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and may not be relied on in any manner or for any purpose by any other Person, nor any copies published, communicated or otherwise made available in whole or in part to any other Person without my specific prior written consent, except that you may furnish copies thereof (i) to any of your permitted successors and assigns in respect of the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum and the Notes, (ii) to your independent auditors and attorneys, (iii) upon the request of any state or federal authority or official having regulatory jurisdiction over you, and (iv) pursuant to order or legal process of any court or governmental agency.
 
Very truly yours,
          For CFSC opinion.
20
          For CFSC opinion.
21
          For CFSC opinion.
22
          For CFSC opinion.
23
 
 
 
 
 
To the Banks listed on Exhibit A
hereto and to Citibank, N.A.,
as Agent, and The
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as
Japan Local Currency Agent
 
 
Re:  Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation  (collectively, the Borrowers and individually a Borrower)
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special New York counsel to Citibank, N.A. (Citibank), individually and as Agent, in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009 (Credit Agreement), among the Borrowers, the Banks party thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, and Citibank, as Agent for the Banks.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
 
In that connection, we have examined the following documents:
 
(1)  Counterparts of the Credit Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum, executed by each of the parties thereto.
 
(2)  The opinion of [Joseph H. Currin], internal counsel for Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar), dated as of the date hereof.
 
(3)  The opinion of [Bryon L. Koepke], internal counsel for Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (CFSC), dated as of the date hereof.
 
In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the authenticity of all such documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures, the due authority of the parties executing such documents, and the conformity to the originals of all such documents submitted to us as copies.  We have also assumed that each of the Banks, the Japan Local Currency Agent  and the Agent have duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement and the Japan Local Currency Addendum, as applicable, with all necessary power and authority (corporate and otherwise).
 
To the extent that our opinion expressed below involves conclusions as to the matters set forth in the opinions of counsel referred to in items (2) and (3) above, we have assumed without independent investigation the correctness of the matters set forth therein.
 
Based upon the foregoing examination of documents and assumptions, and subject to the qualifications contained herein, and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary, we are of the opinion that (a) the Credit Agreement is, and the Notes executed by each of Caterpillar and CFSC and delivered on or prior to the date hereof are, the legal, valid and binding obligations of each of Caterpillar and CFSC, respectively, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their respective terms; and (b) the Japan Local Currency Addendum is the legal, valid and binding obligation of CFSC, enforceable against CFSC in accordance with its terms.
 
Our opinion above is subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a)  Our opinion above is subject to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing.  In applying such principles, a court, among other things, might not allow a creditor to accelerate maturity of a debt upon the occurrence of a default deemed immaterial or might decline to order a debtor to perform covenants.  Such principles applied by a court include a requirement that a creditor act with reasonableness and in good faith.
 
(b)  Our opinion above is also subject (i) to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors rights generally and (ii) to the effect of any federal or state law, rule or regulation (including any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) or public policy, to the extent that such law, rule, regulation or public policy limits rights to indemnification.
 
(c)  Our opinion above is limited to the law of the State of New York, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we express no opinion as to (i) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction, other than the State of New York, wherein any Bank may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum  or the Notes may be sought which limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible, or (ii) whether any of the Banks is doing business in the State of New York.
 
(d)  We express no opinion as to the effect of the compliance or noncompliance of the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Agent  or any of the Banks with any state or federal laws or regulations applicable to any such party because of such partys legal or regulatory status, the nature of such partys business or the authority of any party to conduct business in any jurisdiction.
 
(e)  We express no opinion as to (i) Sections 2.13 or 8.05 of the Credit Agreement, or any comparable provisions under the Japan Local Currency Addendum, insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Banks claims under the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum or the Notes; (ii) Sections 2.12(c) or 8.04(c) of the Credit Agreement or any comparable provisions of the Japan Local Currency Addendum, to the extent that any such section or provision may be construed as requiring indemnification with respect to a claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by a Bank or the Agent; (iii) the first sentence of Section 8.08(b) of the Credit Agreement, or any comparable provisions of the Japan Local Currency Addendum, insofar as any such provision relates to the subject matter jurisdiction of the United States District Court to adjudicate any controversy related to the Credit Agreement; or (iv) Sections 8.10  or 8.12, the last sentence of Section 8.08(b) of the Credit Agreement or any comparable provisions of the Japan Local Currency Addendum.
 
(f)  We express no opinion as to the legality, validity or enforceability of any of the Credit Agreement or the Japan Local Currency Addendum with regard to or as against Caterpillar Finance Corporation (CFC), nor shall any of the opinions contained herein be construed to apply to CFC.
 
This opinion is limited to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly set forth herein.  The opinion expressed herein is being delivered to you as of the date hereof in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and is solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and may not be relied on in any manner for any other purpose and may not be relied on for any purpose  by any other person, nor any copies published, communicated or otherwise made available in whole or in part to any other person or entity without our specific prior written consent, except that you may furnish copies thereof (i) to any of your permitted successors and assigns in respect of the Credit Agreement, the Japan Local Currency Addendum and the Notes, (ii) to your independent auditors and attorneys, (iii) upon the request of any state or federal authority or official having regulatory jurisdiction over you, and (iv) pursuant to order or legal process of any court or governmental agency.  The opinion expressed herein is based solely on factual matters in existence as of the date hereof and laws and regulations in effect on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion letter to reflect any matters which may hereafter come to our attention, or should such factual matters change or should such laws or regulations be changed by legislative or regulatory action, judicial decision or otherwise.
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A.
[Banks]
 
 
 
 
 
To:           The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Inc. (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Consolidated Net Worth, as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is at least $9,000,000,000 as shown below.
Section 5.03
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
 
 
 
 
To:           The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT:
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Leverage Ratio as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is not greater than 10.0 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(a)
 
 
5.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the ratio of (1) the CFSCs profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (2) Interest Expense, computed as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by the attached financial statements for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended, is not less than 1.15 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(b)
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
 
 
JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY ADDENDUM, dated as of September 17, 2009, to the Credit Agreement (as defined below), among Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Japan Local Currency Banks (as defined below), Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent.
 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
 
SECTION 1.01.    As used in this Addendum, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
 
 means the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of September 17, 2009, among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto as Banks, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, as the same may be amended, waived, modified or restated from time to time.
Credit Agreement
 
 means any Advance, denominated in Japanese Yen, made to CFC pursuant to and of the Credit Agreement and this Addendum.  A Japan Local Currency Advance shall bear interest at the rate specified in .
Japan Local Currency Advance
Sections 2.03A
2.03B
Schedule II
 
 means each Bank listed on the signature pages of this Addendum or which becomes a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance or an Assumption and Acceptance.
Japan Local Currency Bank
 
SECTION 1.02.    Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meanings in this Addendum.  Wherever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation.  All references herein to Sections and Schedules shall be deemed references to Sections of and Schedules to this Addendum unless the context shall otherwise require.
Terms Generally.
 
 
ARTICLE II
The Credits
 
SECTION 2.01.    (a)  This Addendum (as the same may be amended, waived, modified or restated from time to time) is the Japan Local Currency Addendum as defined in the Credit Agreement and is, together with the borrowings made hereunder, subject in all respects to the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement except to the extent that the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are modified by or are inconsistent with this Addendum, in which case this Addendum shall control.
Japan Local Currency Advances.
 
(b)  Any modifications to the interest payment dates, Interest Periods, interest rates and any other special provisions applicable to Japan Local Currency Advances under this Addendum are set forth on .  If states None or Same as Credit Agreement with respect to any item listed thereon, then the corresponding provisions of the Credit Agreement, without modification, shall govern this Addendum and the Japan Local Currency Advances made pursuant to this Addendum.
Schedule II
Schedule II
 
(c)  Any special borrowing procedures or funding arrangements for Japan Local Currency Advances under this Addendum, any provisions for the issuance of promissory notes to evidence the Japan Local Currency Advances made hereunder and any additional information requirements applicable to Japan Local Currency Advances under this Addendum are set forth on .  If no such special procedures, funding arrangements, provisions or additional requirements are set forth on , then the corresponding procedures, funding arrangements, provisions and information requirements set forth in the Credit Agreement shall govern this Addendum.
Schedule III
Schedule III
 
SECTION 2.02.    (a)  The Total Japan Local Currency Commitment, and the Japan Local Currency Commitment for each Japan Local Currency Bank party to this Addendum as of the date hereof, are set forth on .
Maximum Borrowing Amounts.
Schedule I
 
(b)  Upon at least five (5) Business Days prior irrevocable written notice to the Agent, the Japan  Local Currency Agent and the Japan Local Currency Banks, CFC may from time to time permanently reduce the Total Japan Local Currency Commitment under this Addendum in whole, or in part ratably among the Japan  Local Currency Banks, in an aggregate minimum Dollar Amount of $1,000,000, and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; , , that the amount of the Total Japan Local Currency Commitment may not be reduced below the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Japan Local Currency Advances with respect thereto.  Any such reduction shall be allocated pro rata among all the Japan Local Currency Banks party to this Addendum by reference to their Japan Local Currency Commitments.
provided
however
 
ARTICLE III
Representations and Warranties
 
Each of CFSC and CFC makes and confirms each representation and warranty applicable to it or any of its Subsidiaries contained in of the Credit Agreement.  Each of CFSC and CFC represents and warrants to each of the Japan Local Currency Banks party to this Addendum that no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, has occurred and is continuing, and no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, shall arise as a result of the making of Japan Local Currency Advances hereunder or any other transaction contemplated hereby.
Article IV
 
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
SECTION 4.01.    (a)  This Addendum (including the Schedules hereto) may not be amended without the prior written consent of the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks hereunder and subject to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.
Amendment; Termination.
Section 8.01
 
(b)  This Addendum may not be terminated without the prior written consent of each Japan Local Currency Bank party hereto, CFSC and CFC unless there are no Japan  Local Currency Advances outstanding hereunder, in which case no such consent of any Japan Local Currency Bank shall be required; , , that this Addendum shall terminate on the date that the Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
provided
however
 
SECTION 4.02.     of the Credit Agreement shall apply to assignments by Japan Local Currency Banks of obligations, Japan Local Currency Commitments and Japan Local Currency Advances hereunder; , , that a Japan Local Currency Bank may not assign any obligations, Japan Local Currency Commitments or rights hereunder to any Person which is not (or does not simultaneously become) a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
Assignments.
Section 8.07
provided
however
 
SECTION 4.03.    Except as otherwise provided herein, all notices, demands, requests, consents and other communications provided for hereunder shall be given in writing or by any telecommunication device capable of creating a written record (including electronic mail), and addressed to the party to be notified as follows:
Notices, Etc.
 
(a)  if to CFC, at Caterpillar Finance Corporation, SBS Tower 14F, 4-10-1 Yoga, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 158-0097, Japan, Attention:  Managing Director (Facsimile No.  813-5797-4522, with a copy to CFSC at its address and telecopy number referenced in of the Credit Agreement;
Section 8.02
 
(b)  if to CFSC, at its address and telecopy number referenced in of the Credit Agreement;
Section 8.02
 
(c)  if to the Japan Local Currency Agent, at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Corporate Banking Division No. 3, Corporate Banking Group, 7-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan, Attention:  Mr. Shu Ohsuga (Telecopy No.:  03-3240-8885 / 81-3-3240-8885) with a copy to the Agent at its address and telecopy number referenced in of the Credit Agreement;
Section 8.02
 
(d)  if to a Japan Local Currency Bank, at its address (and telecopy number) set forth in or in the Assignment and Acceptance or Assumption and Acceptance pursuant to which such Japan Local Currency Bank became a party hereto;
Schedule I
 
(e)  if to the Agent, at its address at Bank Loan Syndications, 1615 Brett Rd., Building No. 3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention:  Bank Loan Syndications, Telecopier No. 212-994-0961, with a copy to Citibank, N.A., 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, Attention:  Marianne ODonnell;
 
or as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties.
 
All notices, demands, requests, consents and other communications described in this shall be effective (i) if delivered by hand, including any overnight courier service, upon personal delivery, (ii) if delivered by mail, when deposited in the mails and (iii) if delivered by electronic mail or any other telecommunications device, when transmitted to an electronic mail address (or by another means of electronic delivery) as provided in this ; , , that notices and communications to the Japan Local Currency Agent pursuant to or hereof or of the Credit Agreement shall not be effective until received by the Japan Local Currency Agent.
Section 4.03
Section 4.03
provided
however
Article II
V
Article II
 
SECTION 4.04.    By its execution of this Addendum, CFSC ratifies and confirms its guaranty contained in of the Credit Agreement with respect to the Japan Local Currency Advances made pursuant to this Addendum which Guaranty remains in full force and effect.
Ratification of Guaranty.
Article IX
 
SECTION 4.05.    If any Japan Local Currency Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Japan Local Currency Advances made by it (other than pursuant to , , , or of the Credit Agreement) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Japan Local Currency Advances obtained by all the Japan Local Currency Banks, such Japan Local Currency Bank shall forthwith purchase from the other Japan Local Currency Banks such participations in the Japan Local Currency Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank, such purchase from each other Japan Local Currency Bank shall be rescinded and each such other Japan Local Currency Bank shall repay to the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such other Japan Local Currency Banks ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such other Japan Local Currency Banks required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered.  CFC agrees that any Japan Local Currency Bank so purchasing a participation from another Japan Local Currency Bank pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Japan Local Currency Bank were the direct creditor of CFC in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
Section 2.02(c)
2.05(d)
2.10
2.12
8.04
provided
however
Section 4.05
 
SECTION 4.06.    THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF).
Applicable Law.
 
SECTION 4.07  .  This Addendum may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
ARTICLE V
The Japan Local Currency Agent
 
SECTION 5.01  .  The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. is appointed by the Japan Local Currency Banks as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder and under the Credit Agreement, and each of the Japan Local Currency Banks irrevocably authorizes the Japan Local Currency Agent to act as the contractual representative of such Japan Local Currency Bank with the rights and duties expressly set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement applicable to the Japan Local Currency Agent.  The Japan Local Currency Agent agrees to act as such contractual representative upon the express conditions contained in this .  Notwithstanding the use of the defined term Japan Local Currency Agent, it is expressly understood and agreed that the Japan Local Currency Agent shall not have any fiduciary responsibilities to any Japan Local Currency Bank or other Bank  by reason of this Addendum and that the Japan Local Currency Agent is merely acting as the representative of the Japan Local Currency Banks with only those duties as are expressly set forth in this Addendum and the Credit Agreement.  In its capacity as the Japan Local Currency Banks contractual representative, the Japan Local Currency Agent (i) does not assume any fiduciary duties to any of the Banks, (ii) is a representative of the Japan Local Currency Banks within the meaning of Section 9-102 of the Uniform Commercial Code and (iii) is acting as an independent contractor, the rights and duties of which are limited to those expressly set forth in this Addendum and the Credit Agreement.  Each of the Japan Local Currency Banks agrees to assert no claim against the Japan Local Currency Agent on any agency theory or any other theory of liability for breach of fiduciary duty, all of which claims each Bank waives.
Appointment; Nature of Relationship
Article V
 
SECTION 5.02  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall have and may exercise such powers under this Addendum and the Credit Agreement as are specifically delegated to the Japan Local Currency Agent by the terms of each thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall have neither any implied duties or fiduciary duties to the Japan Local Currency Banks or the Banks, nor any obligation to the Japan Local Currency Banks or the Banks to take any action hereunder or under the Credit Agreement except any action specifically provided by this Addendum or the Credit Agreement required to be taken by the Japan Local Currency Agent.
Powers
 
SECTION 5.03  .  Neither the Japan Local Currency Agent nor any of its respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable to any of the Borrowers or any Bank for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or under the Credit Agreement or in connection herewith or therewith except to the extent such action or inaction is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Person.
General Immunity
 
SECTION 5.04    [Intentionally Omitted. See and of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
No Responsibility for Advances, Creditworthiness, Collateral, Recitals, Etc.
Sections 7.03
7.04
 
SECTION 5.05  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder and under the Credit Agreement in accordance with written instructions signed by Majority Japan Local Currency Banks (except with respect to actions that require the consent of all of the Banks as provided in the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, thereof), and such instructions and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Japan Local Currency Banks.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and under the Credit Agreement unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Japan Local Currency Banks pro rata against any and all liability, cost and expense that it may incur by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
Action on Instructions of Japan Local Currency Banks
Section 8.01
 
SECTION 5.06  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent may execute any of its duties hereunder and under the Credit Agreement by or through employees, agents, and attorneys-in-fact, and shall not be answerable to the Banks or the Japan Local Currency Banks, except as to money or securities received by it or its authorized agents, for the default or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning the contractual arrangement among the Japan Local Currency Agent and the Japan Local Currency Banks, as the case may be, and all matters pertaining to its duties hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.
Employment of Agents and Counsel
 
SECTION 5.07  .  [Intentionally Omitted. See of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
Reliance on Documents; Counsel
Section 7.03
 
SECTION 5.08  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of trust, debt, equity or other transaction, in addition to those contemplated by this Addendum or the Credit Agreement, with CFSC, CFC or any of their respective Subsidiaries in which the Japan Local Currency Agent is not prohibited hereby from engaging with any other Person.
Other Transactions
 
SECTION 5.09 .  [Intentionally Omitted. See of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
Bank Credit Decision
Section 7.07
 
SECTION 5.10  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent (i) may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Banks and the Borrowers, and may appoint one of its Affiliates as successor Japan Local Currency Agent and (ii) may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks.  Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks, with the consent of the Agent, shall have the right to appoint (unless, in the case of the resignation of the Japan Local Currency Agent, the resigning  Japan Local Currency Agent has appointed one of its Affiliates as successor Japan Local Currency Agent), on behalf of the Borrowers and the Japan Local Currency Banks, a successor Japan Local Currency Agent.  If no successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty days after the retiring Japan Local Currency Agents giving notice of resignation or the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks removal of the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent, then the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Borrowers and the Japan Local Currency Banks, a successor Japan Local Currency Agent, which need not be one of its Affiliates.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, so long as no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given, time elapse or both, has occurred and is continuing, each such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall be subject to written approval by CFSC and CFC, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall be a commercial bank having capital and retained earnings of at least $500,000,000.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder by a successor Japan Local Currency Agent, such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent, and the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.  After any retiring Japan Local Currency Agents resignation hereunder as Japan Local Currency Agent, the provisions of this shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.
Successor Japan Local Currency Agent
Article V
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Addendum to be duly executed as a deed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date and year first above written.
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCE CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
CITIBANK, N.A., as the Agent
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., as the Japan Local Currency Agent
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., as the Japan Local Currency Bank
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
 
SCHEDULE I
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
1.  : 
Business Day Definition
:  Same as Credit Agreement.
Business Day
 
2.  :  Same as Credit Agreement.  (See of Credit Agreement).
Interest Payment Dates
Section 2.07
 
3.  :  Same as Credit Agreement.  (See definition of Interest Period, ,
Interest Periods
Section 1.01
and of Credit Agreement).
Section 2.07(d)
 
4.  :
Interest Rates
 
Each Japan Local Currency Advance that is a TIBO Rate Advance shall bear interest from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but not including) the last day of such Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) the TIBO Rate for such Japan Local Currency Advance for such Interest Period (ii) the Applicable Margin as in effect from time to time during such Interest Period; , , after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default or an event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, the provisions of of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable.  Each Japan Local Currency Advance that is a Japan Base Rate Advance shall bear interest during any Interest Period at a per annum rate equal to the sum of (i) the Japan Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time during such Interest Period.  The terms of Section 2.07 and the other provisions of the Credit Agreement shall otherwise govern the accrual and payment of interest on Japan Local Currency Advances.
plus
provided
however
Section 2.07(d)
plus
 
5.  :
Other
 
Additional Conditions Precedent:  None
 
Current Termination Date for Addendum:  The Current Termination Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Extended Termination Date for Addendum: The Extended Termination Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Term Loan Repayment Date: The Term Loan Repayment Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Prepayment Notices:  CFC shall be permitted to prepay a Japan Local Currency Advance subject to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement, on any Business Day, provided, in the case of any prepayment, notice thereof is given to the Japan Local Currency Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment.
Section 8.04(b)
 
 
SCHEDULE III
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
 
 
1.  :
Borrowing Procedures
 
(a)  Notice of Japan Local Currency Borrowing shall be given by CFC to the Japan Local Currency Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Japan Local Currency Borrowing (or not later than 10:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) on the Business Day of the proposed Japan Local Currency Borrowing if such proposed Japan Local Currency Borrowing is requested on a same-day basis),  and the Japan Local Currency Agent shall give each Japan Local Currency Bank prompt notice thereof in accordance with .
Section 4.03
 
(b)  Each Notice of Japan Local Currency Borrowing shall be addressed to the Japan Local Currency Agent at its address set forth in and shall specify the bank account to which the Japan Local Currency Advances are to be made.
Section 4.03
 
2.  :
Funding Arrangements
 
Minimum amounts/increments for Japan Local Currency Borrowings, repayments and prepayments:
 
Same as Credit Agreement.
 
3.  :  None required.
Promissory Notes
 
 
 

 
JAPAN LOCAL CURRENCY ADDENDUM, dated as of September 17, 2009, to the Credit Agreement (as defined below), among Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Japan Local Currency Banks (as defined below), Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent.
 
 
SECTION 1.01.    As used in this Addendum, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
 
 means the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of September 17, 2009, among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto as Banks, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, as the same may be amended, waived, modified or restated from time to time.
Credit Agreement
 
 means any Advance, denominated in Japanese Yen, made to CFC pursuant to and of the Credit Agreement and this Addendum.  A Japan Local Currency Advance shall bear interest at the rate specified in .
Japan Local Currency Advance
Sections 2.03A
2.03B
Schedule II
 
 means each Bank listed on the signature pages of this Addendum or which becomes a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance or an Assumption and Acceptance.
Japan Local Currency Bank
 
SECTION 1.02.    Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meanings in this Addendum.  Wherever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation.  All references herein to Sections and Schedules shall be deemed references to Sections of and Schedules to this Addendum unless the context shall otherwise require.
Terms Generally.
 
 
SECTION 2.01.    
Japan Local Currency Advances.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.02.    
Maximum Borrowing Amounts.
 
 
 
 
Each of CFSC and CFC makes and confirms each representation and warranty applicable to it or any of its Subsidiaries contained in of the Credit Agreement.  Each of CFSC and CFC represents and warrants to each of the Japan Local Currency Banks party to this Addendum that no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, has occurred and is continuing, and no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, shall arise as a result of the making of Japan Local Currency Advances hereunder or any other transaction contemplated hereby.
Article IV
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01.    
Amendment; Termination.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.02.     of the Credit Agreement shall apply to assignments by Japan Local Currency Banks of obligations, Japan Local Currency Commitments and Japan Local Currency Advances hereunder; , , that a Japan Local Currency Bank may not assign any obligations, Japan Local Currency Commitments or rights hereunder to any Person which is not (or does not simultaneously become) a Bank under the Credit Agreement.
Assignments.
Section 8.07
provided
however
 
SECTION 4.03.    Except as otherwise provided herein, all notices, demands, requests, consents and other communications provided for hereunder shall be given in writing or by any telecommunication device capable of creating a written record (including electronic mail), and addressed to the party to be notified as follows:
Notices, Etc.
 
 
or as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties.
 
All notices, demands, requests, consents and other communications described in this shall be effective (i) if delivered by hand, including any overnight courier service, upon personal delivery, (ii) if delivered by mail, when deposited in the mails and (iii) if delivered by electronic mail or any other telecommunications device, when transmitted to an electronic mail address (or by another means of electronic delivery) as provided in this ; , however, that notices and communications to the Japan Local Currency Agent pursuant to or hereof or of the Credit Agreement shall not be effective until received by the Japan Local Currency Agent.
Section 4.03
Section 4.03
provided
Article II
V
Article II
 
SECTION 4.04.    By its execution of this Addendum, CFSC ratifies and confirms its guaranty contained in of the Credit Agreement with respect to the Japan Local Currency Advances made pursuant to this Addendum which Guaranty remains in full force and effect.
Ratification of Guaranty.
Article IX
 
SECTION 4.05.    If any Japan Local Currency Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Japan Local Currency Advances made by it (other than pursuant to , , , or of the Credit Agreement) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Japan Local Currency Advances obtained by all the Japan Local Currency Banks, such Japan Local Currency Bank shall forthwith purchase from the other Japan Local Currency Banks such participations in the Japan Local Currency Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank, such purchase from each other Japan Local Currency Bank shall be rescinded and each such other Japan Local Currency Bank shall repay to the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such other Japan Local Currency Banks ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such other Japan Local Currency Banks required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Japan Local Currency Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered.  CFC agrees that any Japan Local Currency Bank so purchasing a participation from another Japan Local Currency Bank pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Japan Local Currency Bank were the direct creditor of CFC in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
Section 2.02(c)
2.05(d)
2.10
2.12
8.04
provided
however
Section 4.05
 
SECTION 4.06.    THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF).
Applicable Law.
 
SECTION 4.07  .  This Addendum may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
 
SECTION 5.01  .  The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. is appointed by the Japan Local Currency Banks as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder and under the Credit Agreement, and each of the Japan Local Currency Banks irrevocably authorizes the Japan Local Currency Agent to act as the contractual representative of such Japan Local Currency Bank with the rights and duties expressly set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement applicable to the Japan Local Currency Agent.  The Japan Local Currency Agent agrees to act as such contractual representative upon the express conditions contained in this .  Notwithstanding the use of the defined term Japan Local Currency Agent, it is expressly understood and agreed that the Japan Local Currency Agent shall not have any fiduciary responsibilities to any Japan Local Currency Bank or other Bank by reason of this Addendum and that the Japan Local Currency Agent is merely acting as the representative of the Japan Local Currency Banks with only those duties as are expressly set forth in this Addendum and the Credit Agreement.  In its capacity as the Japan Local Currency Banks contractual representative, the Japan Local Currency Agent (i) does not assume any fiduciary duties to any of the Banks, (ii) is a representative of the Japan Local Currency Banks within the meaning of Section 9-102 of the Uniform Commercial Code and (iii) is acting as an independent contractor, the rights and duties of which are limited to those expressly set forth in this Addendum and the Credit Agreement.  Each of the Japan Local Currency Banks agrees to assert no claim against the Japan Local Currency Agent on any agency theory or any other theory of liability for breach of fiduciary duty, all of which claims each Bank waives.
Appointment; Nature of Relationship
Article V
 
SECTION 5.02  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall have and may exercise such powers under this Addendum and the Credit Agreement as are specifically delegated to the Japan Local Currency Agent by the terms of each thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall have neither any implied duties or fiduciary duties to the Japan Local Currency Banks or the Banks, nor any obligation to the Japan Local Currency Banks or the Banks to take any action hereunder or under the Credit Agreement except any action specifically provided by this Addendum or the Credit Agreement required to be taken by the Japan Local Currency Agent.
Powers
 
SECTION 5.03  .  Neither the Japan Local Currency Agent nor any of its respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable to any of the Borrowers or any Bank for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or under the Credit Agreement or in connection herewith or therewith except to the extent such action or inaction is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Person.
General Immunity
 
SECTION 5.04    [Intentionally Omitted. See of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
No Responsibility for Advances, Creditworthiness, Collateral, Recitals, Etc.
Sections 7.03 and 7.04
 
SECTION 5.05  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder and under the Credit Agreement in accordance with written instructions signed by Majority Japan Local Currency Banks (except with respect to actions that require the consent of all of the Banks as provided in the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, thereof), and such instructions and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Japan Local Currency Banks.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and under the Credit Agreement unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Japan Local Currency Banks pro rata against any and all liability, cost and expense that it may incur by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
Action on Instructions of Japan Local Currency Banks
Section 8.01
 
SECTION 5.06  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent may execute any of its duties hereunder and under the Credit Agreement by or through employees, agents, and attorneys-in-fact, and shall not be answerable to the Banks or the Japan Local Currency Banks, except as to money or securities received by it or its authorized agents, for the default or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.  The Japan Local Currency Agent shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning the contractual arrangement among the Japan Local Currency Agent and the Japan Local Currency Banks, as the case may be, and all matters pertaining to its duties hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.
Employment of Agents and Counsel
 
SECTION 5.07  .  [Intentionally Omitted. See of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
Reliance on Documents; Counsel
Section 7.03
 
SECTION 5.08  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of trust, debt, equity or other transaction, in addition to those contemplated by this Addendum or the Credit Agreement, with CFSC, CFC or any of their respective Subsidiaries in which the Japan Local Currency Agent is not prohibited hereby from engaging with any other Person.
Other Transactions
 
SECTION 5.09 .  [Intentionally Omitted. See of the Credit Agreement for these provisions.]
Bank Credit Decision
Section 7.07
 
SECTION 5.10  .  The Japan Local Currency Agent (i) may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Agent, the Japan Local Currency Banks and the Borrowers, and may appoint one of its Affiliates as successor Japan Local Currency Agent and (ii) may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks.  Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks, with the consent of the Agent, shall have the right to appoint (unless, in the case of the resignation of the Japan Local Currency Agent, the resigning  Japan Local Currency Agent has appointed one of its Affiliates as successor Japan Local Currency Agent), on behalf of the Borrowers and the Japan Local Currency Banks, a successor Japan Local Currency Agent.  If no successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty days after the retiring Japan Local Currency Agents giving notice of resignation or the Majority Japan Local Currency Banks removal of the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent, then the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Borrowers and the Japan Local Currency Banks, a successor Japan Local Currency Agent, which need not be one of its Affiliates.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, so long as no Event of Default, or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given, time elapse or both, has occurred and is continuing, each such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall be subject to written approval by CFSC and CFC, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall be a commercial bank having capital and retained earnings of at least $500,000,000.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder by a successor Japan Local Currency Agent, such successor Japan Local Currency Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent, and the retiring Japan Local Currency Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.  After any retiring Japan Local Currency Agents resignation hereunder as Japan Local Currency Agent, the provisions of this shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Japan Local Currency Agent hereunder and under the Credit Agreement.
Successor Japan Local Currency Agent
Article V
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Addendum to be duly executed as a deed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
1.  : 
Business Day Definition
 
:  Same as Credit Agreement.
Business Day
 
2.  :  Same as Credit Agreement.  (See of Credit Agreement).
Interest Payment Dates
Section 2.07
 
3.  :  Same as Credit Agreement.  (See definition of Interest Period, ,
Interest Periods
Section 1.01
and of Credit Agreement).
Section 2.07(d)
 
4.  :
Interest Rates
 
Each Japan Local Currency Advance that is a TIBO Rate Advance shall bear interest from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but not including) the last day of such Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) the TIBO Rate for such Japan Local Currency Advance for such Interest Period (ii) the Applicable Margin as in effect from time to time during such Interest Period; , , after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default or an event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both, the provisions of of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable.  Each Japan Local Currency Advance that is a Japan Base Rate Advance shall bear interest during any Interest Period at a per annum rate equal to the sum of (i) the Japan Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time during such Interest Period.  The terms of Section 2.07 and the other provisions of the Credit Agreement shall otherwise govern the accrual and payment of interest on Japan Local Currency Advances.
plus
provided
however
Section 2.07(d)
plus
 
5.  :
Other
 
Additional Conditions Precedent:  None
 
Current Termination Date for Addendum:  The Current Termination Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Extended Termination Date for Addendum: The Extended Termination Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Term Loan Repayment Date: The Term Loan Repayment Date under the Credit Agreement.
 
Prepayment Notices:  CFC shall be permitted to prepay a Japan Local Currency Advance subject to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement, on any Business Day, provided, in the case of any prepayment, notice thereof is given to the Japan Local Currency Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (Tokyo time) at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment.
Section 8.04(b)
 
SCHEDULE III
to Japan Local Currency Addendum
 
 
1.  :
Borrowing Procedures
 
 
 
2.  :
Funding Arrangements
 
Minimum amounts/increments for Japan Local Currency Borrowings, repayments and prepayments:
 
Same as Credit Agreement.
 
3.  :  None required.
Promissory Notes
 

This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (364-DAY FACILITY) (this ), dated as of September 17, 2009, is entered into by and among Caterpillar Inc. () and Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (, and together with Caterpillar, the ), the Banks parties hereto (the ) and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the ) under the Credit Agreement (as defined below).  Each capitalized term used herein and not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Caterpillar
CFSC
Borrowers
Banks
Administrative Agent
 
 
The Borrowers, the Banks and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of March 31, 2009 (as the same may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ).  The Borrowers have requested that the Banks and the Administrative Agent amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth, and the Banks and the Administrative Agent have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement pursuant to the terms of this Amendment.
Credit Agreement
 
  .  Effective as of the date hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the condition precedent set forth in below, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 1.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
Section 2
 
1.1  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Section 1.01
 
 means (i) with respect to Caterpillar, on any date of determination, the accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) balance as presented in Caterpillars financial statements compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and (ii) with respect to CFSC, on any date of determination, the aggregate amount, as such amount appears in CFSCs financial statements, compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of (x) CFSCs translation adjustments related to its foreign currency transactions, (y) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs derivative instruments and (z) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs retained interests in securitized receivables.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
1.2  The definition of  set forth in is deleted in its entirety.
CFSC Consolidated Debt
Section 1.01
 
1.3  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Consolidated Net Worth
Section 1.01
 means as at any date, (i) for Caterpillar, the consolidated stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) of Caterpillar at such date, and (ii) for CFSC, the stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and non-controlling interests as defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) of CFSC on such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
1.4  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Existing 364-Day Agreement
Section 1.01
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, among Caterpillar, CFSC, CFC, certain financial institutions party thereto, BTMU, as the Japan Local Currency Agent thereunder, and Citibank, as agent for such financial institutions, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Existing 364-Day Credit Agreement
 
1.5  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Interest Expense
Section 1.01
 
 means for any period of determination, all interest (without duplication), whether paid in cash or accrued as a liability, on Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such period (including imputed interest on any capital lease of CFSC or its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Expense
 
1.6   is amended by adding the following defined terms thereto in appropriate alphabetical order:
Section 1.01
 
 means, on any date, any Subsidiary of Caterpillar or CFSC whose aggregate asset value, as reasonably calculated by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is at less than or equal to $50,000,000 on such date.
Insignificant Subsidiary
 
 has the meaning as reflected in the financial caption, Other income(expense), in CFSCs Consolidated Statement of Profit as compiled under generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives
 
1.7   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(h)
 
(h)  .  Each Plan of such Borrower or a Subsidiary of such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate complies in all material respects with ERISA, the Code and regulations thereunder and the terms of such Plan.  Each Plan has satisfied the minimum funding standard under Section 412(a) of the Code without the need of any funding waiver under Section 412(c) of the Code.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate nor any fiduciary of any Plan which is not a Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) (i) has engaged in a nonexempt prohibited transaction described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the Code whereby such prohibited transaction has materially adversely affected the business, financial condition or results of operations of such Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) has taken or failed to take any action which would constitute or result in an ERISA Termination Event.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has (i) failed to make a required contribution or payment to a Multiemployer Plan or (ii) made a complete or partial withdrawal under Sections 4203 or 4205 of ERISA from a Multiemployer Plan.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 of the Code or Section 430 of the Code on or before the due date for such installment or other payment.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC which remains outstanding other than the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due which are unpaid.
ERISA
 
1.8   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(i)
 
(i)  .  Such Borrower has paid or discharged, or caused to be paid or discharged, before the same shall have become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon such the Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower or upon the income, profits or property of such Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower, other than (i) such taxes, assessments and governmental charges the amount, applicability or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established, or (ii) up to $10,000,000 at any time in aggregate taxes, assessments, and governmental charges so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
Taxes; Assessments
 
1.9   is amended by inserting the following proviso at the end thereof, immediately following the first proviso:
Section 5.01(d)
 
, , that up to $10,000,000 in aggregate taxes, assessments, governmental charges, and lawful claims as described above may be delinquent at any time so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
provided
further
 
1.10   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.01(f)(viii)
 
(viii)  promptly after (A) the occurrence thereof, notice that (1) an ERISA Termination Event or a prohibited transaction, as such term is defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan of such Borrower has occurred and there shall result therefrom a liability or material risk of incurring a liability to the PBGC or a Plan that will have a material adverse affect upon the business or financial condition or results of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which such notice shall specify the nature thereof and such Borrowers proposed response thereto, (2) such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 or Section 430 of the Code and (3) the plan administrator of any Plan has applied under Section 412(c) of the Code for a waiver of the minimum funding standards of Section 412(a) of the Code, together with copies of such waiver application, and (B) actual knowledge thereof, copies of any notice of the PBGCs intention to terminate or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
 
1.11   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.03
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, Caterpillar will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, maintain at all times during each fiscal year of Caterpillar, Consolidated Net Worth of not less than $9,000,000,000.
Financial Covenant of Caterpillar
 
1.12   and are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Sections 5.04(a)
(b)
 
(a)  .
Ratio of CFSC Debt to Consolidated Net Worth
 
(i)  Maintain at all times a ratio (the ) of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth of not greater than 10.0 to 1.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio at any time shall be equal to the average of the Leverage Ratios as determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months.
Leverage Ratio
subsection (i)
 
(ii)  Maintain a Leverage Ratio of not greater than 10.0 to 1 on each December 31, commencing December 31, 2009.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio shall be the ratio of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth on the date for which computed.
subsection (ii)
 
(b)  .  Maintain a ratio of (i) profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (ii) Interest Expense, of not less than 1.15 to 1, in each case, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended for CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
1.13  The proviso appearing in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.01(e)
 
, , that the filing of one or more of the proceedings and/or the occurrence of one or more of the other events described in this Section 6.01(e) with respect to any Insignificant SubsidiaryEvent of Defaultthe proceedings and/or other events described in this Section 6.01(e); or
provided
however
shall not constitute an
hereunder until such time as the aggregate of the asset values, as reasonably determined by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of all Insignificant Subsidiaries subject to
equals or exceeds $250,000,000 (with each Insignificant Subsidiarys asset value being determined, for purposes of this clause (e), on the date on which such filing or other event commences or otherwise initially occurs with respect to such Insignificant Subsidiary, and with such value remaining in effect for such Insignificant Subsidiary once determined)
 
1.14   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-1 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 1 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-1
 
1.15   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-2 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 2 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-2
 
  .  This Amendment shall become effective and be deemed effective as of the date hereof upon the Administrative Agents receipt of duly executed counterparts of this Amendment from each Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Majority Banks.
SECTION 2.
Condition Precedent
 
  .
SECTION 3.
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers
 
3.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each Borrower hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties made by it in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and agrees that all such covenants, representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been re-made as of the effective date of this Amendment.
 
3.2  Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants that (a) this Amendment constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally and by the effect of general principles of equity and (b) upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, no Event of Default shall exist with respect to such Borrower and no event shall exist which, with the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to such Borrower.
 
  .
SECTION 4.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement
 
4.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof, herein or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other document, instrument or agreement executed and/or delivered in connection with the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
 
4.2  Except as specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement, the Notes and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
4.3  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any party under the Credit Agreement, the Notes or any other document, instrument or agreement executed in connection therewith, nor constitute a waiver of any provision contained therein, except as specifically set forth herein.
 
  .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  A facsimile or PDF copy of any signature hereto shall have the same effect as the original of such signature.
SECTION 5.
Execution in Counterparts
 
  
SECTION 6.
Governing Law
.  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard for conflict of law principles that would result in the application of any law other than the internal law of the State of New York.
 
  .  Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
SECTION 7.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 1
 
 
 
 
To:  The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of March 31, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc. and Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Inc. (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Consolidated Net Worth, as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is at least $9,000,000,000 as shown below.
Section 5.03
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 2
 
 
 
To:  The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of March 31, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc. and Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Leverage Ratio as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is not greater than 10.0 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(a)
 
 
5.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the ratio of (1) the CFSCs profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (2) Interest Expense, computed as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by the attached financial statements for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended, is not less than 1.15 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 

EXHIBIT 99.4
This AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (FIVE-YEAR FACILITY) (this ), dated as of September 17, 2009, is entered into by and among Caterpillar Inc. (), Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation () and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (, and together with Caterpillar and CFSC, the ), the Banks and Japan Local Currency Banks party hereto (collectively, the ), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent (the ) and as Japan Local Currency Bank (the ) under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and Citibank, N.A., as Agent (the  and together with the Japan Local Currency Agent, the ) under the Credit Agreement.  Each capitalized term used herein and not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Caterpillar
CFSC
CFC
Borrowers
Banks
Japan Local Currency Agent
Japan Local Currency Bank
Administrative Agent
Agents
 
 
The Borrowers, the Banks and the Agents are parties to the Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility), dated as of September 20, 2007 (as the same has been and may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ).  The Borrowers have requested that the Banks and the Agents amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth, and the Banks and the Agents have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement pursuant to the terms of this Amendment.
Credit Agreement
 
  .  Effective as of the date hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the condition precedent set forth in below, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 1.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
Section 3
 
1.1  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Section 1.01
 
 means (i) with respect to Caterpillar, on any date of determination, the accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) balance as presented in Caterpillars financial statements compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and (ii) with respect to CFSC, on any date of determination, the aggregate amount, as such amount appears in CFSCs financial statements, compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of (x) CFSCs translation adjustments related to its foreign currency transactions, (y) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs derivative instruments and (z) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs retained interests in securitized receivables.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
1.2  The definition of  set forth in is deleted in its entirety.
CFSC Consolidated Debt
Section 1.01
 
1.3  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Consolidated Net Worth
Section 1.01
 
 means as at any date, (i) for Caterpillar, the consolidated stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) of Caterpillar at such date, and (ii) for CFSC, the stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and non-controlling interests as defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) of CFSC on such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
1.4  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Interest Expense
Section 1.01
 
 means for any period of determination, all interest (without duplication), whether paid in cash or accrued as a liability, on Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such period (including imputed interest on any capital lease of CFSC or its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Expense
 
1.5  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
364-Day Credit Agreement
Section 1.01
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, among Caterpillar, CFSC, CFC, certain financial institutions party thereto, BTMU, as the Japan Local Currency Agent thereunder, and Citibank, as agent for such financial institutions, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
364-Day Credit Agreement
 
1.6   is amended by adding the following defined terms thereto in appropriate alphabetical order:
Section 1.01
 
 means, on any date, any Subsidiary of Caterpillar or CFSC whose aggregate asset value, as reasonably calculated by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is at less than or equal to $50,000,000 on such date.
Insignificant Subsidiary
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of March 31, 2009, among Caterpillar and CFSC as borrowers thereunder, certain financial institutions party thereto and Citibank, as agent for such banks, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
March 2009 Credit Agreement
 
 has the meaning as reflected in the financial caption, Other income(expense), in CFSCs Consolidated Statement of Profit as compiled under generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives
 
1.7  The first sentence of is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.02
 
The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing to any Borrower (including the initial Borrowing) shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing:
 
1.8   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.02(a)(ii)
 
(ii) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to any Borrower; and
 
1.9   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.03
 
SECTION 3.03. .  The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of any Borrowing to any Borrower which would increase the aggregate outstanding amount of Advances owing to such Bank over the aggregate amount of such Advances outstanding immediately prior to the making of such Advance shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by a Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing such statements are true):  (i) the representations and warranties contained in subsection (f) of are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which would constitute an Event of Default with respect to any Borrower but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Conditions Precedent to Certain Borrowings
Section 4.01
 
1.10   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(h)
 
(h)  .  Each Plan of such Borrower or a Subsidiary of such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate complies in all material respects with ERISA, the Code and regulations thereunder and the terms of such Plan.  Each Plan has satisfied the minimum funding standard under Section 412(a) of the Code without the need of any funding waiver under Section 412(c) of the Code.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate nor any fiduciary of any Plan which is not a Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) (i) has engaged in a nonexempt prohibited transaction described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the Code whereby such prohibited transaction has materially adversely affected the business, financial condition or results of operations of such Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) has taken or failed to take any action which would constitute or result in an ERISA Termination Event.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has (i) failed to make a required contribution or payment to a Multiemployer Plan or (ii) made a complete or partial withdrawal under Sections 4203 or 4205 of ERISA from a Multiemployer Plan.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 of the Code or Section 430 of the Code on or before the due date for such installment or other payment.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC which remains outstanding other than the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due which are unpaid.
ERISA
 
1.11   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(i)
 
(i)  .  Such Borrower has paid or discharged, or caused to be paid or discharged, before the same shall have become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon such the Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower or upon the income, profits or property of such Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower, other than (i) such taxes, assessments and governmental charges the amount, applicability or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established, or (ii) up to $10,000,000 at any time in aggregate taxes, assessments, and governmental charges so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
Taxes; Assessments
 
1.12   is amended by inserting the following proviso at the end thereof, immediately following the first proviso:
Section 5.01(d)
 
, , that up to $10,000,000 in aggregate taxes, assessments, governmental charges, and lawful claims as described above may be delinquent at any time so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
provided
further
 
1.13   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.01(f)(viii)
 
(viii)  promptly after (A) the occurrence thereof, notice that (1) an ERISA Termination Event or a prohibited transaction, as such term is defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan of such Borrower has occurred and there shall result therefrom a liability or material risk of incurring a liability to the PBGC or a Plan that will have a material adverse affect upon the business or financial condition or results of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which such notice shall specify the nature thereof and such Borrowers proposed response thereto, (2) such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 or Section 430 of the Code and (3) the plan administrator of any Plan has applied under Section 412(c) of the Code for a waiver of the minimum funding standards of Section 412(a) of the Code, together with copies of such waiver application, and (B) actual knowledge thereof, copies of any notice of the PBGCs intention to terminate or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
 
1.14   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.03
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, Caterpillar will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, maintain at all times during each fiscal year of Caterpillar, Consolidated Net Worth of not less than $9,000,000,000.
Financial Covenant of Caterpillar
 
1.15   and are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Sections 5.04(a)
(b)
 
(a)  .
Ratio of CFSC Debt to Consolidated Net Worth
 
(i)  Maintain at all times a ratio (the ) of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth of not greater than 10.0 to 1.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio at any time shall be equal to the average of the Leverage Ratios as determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months.
Leverage Ratio
subsection (i)
 
(ii)  Maintain a Leverage Ratio of not greater than 10.0 to 1 on each December 31, commencing December 31, 2008.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio shall be the ratio of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth on the date for which computed.
subsection (ii)
 
(b)  .  Maintain a ratio of (i) profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (ii) Interest Expense, of not less than 1.15 to 1, in each case, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended for CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
1.16   is amended to insert the following immediately after the parenthetical (including the Japan Local Currency Addendum, if applicable):
Section 6.01(d)(i)
 
under the March 2009 Credit Agreement,
 
1.17   is amended to insert the following immediately after the parenthetical (including the Japan Local Currency Addendum, if applicable):
Section 6.01(d)(ii)
 
under the March 2009 Credit Agreement,
 
1.18   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.01(d)(iv)
 
(iv) any Event of Default shall occur with respect to (a) such Borrower under the 364-Day Credit Agreement, (b) such Borrower under the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement or (c) any Borrower under the March 2009 Credit Agreement, or
 
1.19  The proviso appearing in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.01(e)
 
, , that the filing of one or more of the proceedings and/or the occurrence of one or more of the other events described in this Section 6.01(e) with respect to any Insignificant SubsidiaryEvent of Defaultthe proceedings and/or other events described in this Section 6.01(e); or
provided
however
shall not constitute an
hereunder until such time as the aggregate of the asset values, as reasonably determined by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of all Insignificant Subsidiaries subject to
equals or exceeds $250,000,000 (with each Insignificant Subsidiarys asset value being determined, for purposes of this clause (e), on the date on which such filing or other event commences or otherwise initially occurs with respect to such Insignificant Subsidiary, and with such value remaining in effect for such Insignificant Subsidiary once determined)
 
1.20  Clause (i)(x) of the last paragraph of (immediately following ) is amended to delete the phrase by notice to such Borrower and to insert in the place thereof the phrase by notice to the Borrowers.
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(i)
 
1.21  Clause (ii)(x) of the last paragraph of (immediately following ) is amended to delete the phrase by notice to CFC and to insert in the place thereof the phrase by notice to the Borrowers.
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(i)
 
1.22   is amended to replace the penultimate proviso , , upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to a Borrower described in , (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to such Borrower shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances to such Borrower, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by such Borrower (appearing in the last paragraph thereof, immediately following ) with the following:
Section 6.01
provided
however
Section 6.01(e)
Section 6.01(i)
 
, , upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to any Borrower described in Section 6.01(e), (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to any Borrower shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances to the Borrowers, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.
provided
however
 
1.23   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-1 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 1 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-1
 
1.24   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-2 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 2 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-2
 
  .  CFSC hereby reaffirms all of its obligations under Article IX of the Credit Agreement and acknowledges and agrees that such obligations remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified, reaffirmed and confirmed.
SECTION 2.
Reaffirmation of CFSC Guaranty
 
  .  This Amendment shall become effective and be deemed effective as of the date hereof upon the Administrative Agents receipt of duly executed counterparts of this Amendment from each Borrower, the Agents and the Majority Banks.
SECTION 3.
Condition Precedent
 
  .
SECTION 4.
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers
 
4.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each Borrower hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties made by it in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and agrees that all such covenants, representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been re-made as of the effective date of this Amendment.
 
4.2  Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants that (a) this Amendment constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally and by the effect of general principles of equity and (b) upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, no Event of Default shall exist with respect to such Borrower and no event shall exist which, with the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to such Borrower.
 
  .
SECTION 5.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement
 
5.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof, herein or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other document, instrument or agreement executed and/or delivered in connection with the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
 
5.2  Except as specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement, the Notes and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
5.3  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any party under the Credit Agreement, the Notes or any other document, instrument or agreement executed in connection therewith, nor constitute a waiver of any provision contained therein, except as specifically set forth herein.
 
  .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  A facsimile or PDF copy of any signature hereto shall have the same effect as the original of such signature.
SECTION 6.
Execution in Counterparts
 
  
SECTION 7.
Governing Law
.  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard for conflict of law principles that would result in the application of any law other than the internal law of the State of New York.
 
  .  Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
SECTION 8.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 1
 
 
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
 
 
To:  The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility) dated as of September 20, 2007, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Inc. (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Consolidated Net Worth, as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is at least $9,000,000,000 as shown below.
Section 5.03
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
     ATTACHMENT 2
 
 
 
 
To:  The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility) dated as of September 20, 2007, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Leverage Ratio as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is not greater than 10.0 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(a)
 
 
5.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the ratio of (1) the CFSCs profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (2) Interest Expense, computed as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by the attached financial statements for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended, is not less than 1.15 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 

This AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (FIVE- FACILITY) (this ), dated as of September 17, 2009, is entered into by and among Caterpillar Inc. (), Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (), Caterpillar Finance Corporation () and Caterpillar International Finance Limited (f/k/a Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c.) (, and together with Caterpillar, CFSC and CFC, the ), the Banks, Japan Local Currency Banks and Local Currency Banks party hereto (collectively, the ), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent (the ) and as Japan Local Currency Bank (the ) under the Credit Agreement (as defined below), Citibank International plc, as the Local Currency Agent under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) (the ), and Citibank, N.A., as Agent (the , and together with the Japan Local Currency Agent and the Local Currency Agent, the ) under the Credit Agreement.  Each capitalized term used herein and not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement.
YEAR
Amendment
Caterpillar
CFSC
CFC
CIF
Borrowers
Banks
Japan Local Currency Agent
Japan Local Currency Bank
Local Currency Agent
Administrative Agent
Agents
 
 
The Borrowers, the Banks and the Agents are parties to the Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility), dated as of September 21, 2006 (as the same has been and may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ).  The Borrowers have requested that the Banks and the Agents amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth, and the Banks and the Agents have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement pursuant to the terms of this Amendment.
Credit Agreement
 
  .  Effective as of the date hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the condition precedent set forth in below, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 1.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
Section 3
 
1.1  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Section 1.01
 
 means (i) with respect to Caterpillar, on any date of determination, the accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) balance as presented in Caterpillars financial statements compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and (ii) with respect to CFSC, on any date of determination, the aggregate amount, as such amount appears in CFSCs financial statements, compiled in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of (x) CFSCs translation adjustments related to its foreign currency transactions, (y) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs derivative instruments and (z) adjustments to the market value of CFSCs retained interests in securitized receivables.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
1.2  The definition of  set forth in is deleted in its entirety.
CFSC Consolidated Debt
Section 1.01
 
1.3  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Consolidated Net Worth
Section 1.01
 
 means as at any date, (i) for Caterpillar, the consolidated stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) of Caterpillar at such date, and (ii) for CFSC, the stockholders equity (including preferred stock but excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and non-controlling interests as defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) of CFSC on such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
1.4  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Interest Expense
Section 1.01
 
 means for any period of determination, all interest (without duplication), whether paid in cash or accrued as a liability, on Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such period (including imputed interest on any capital lease of CFSC or its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Expense
 
1.5  The definition of  set forth in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
364-Day Credit Agreement
Section 1.01
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility) dated as of September 17, 2009, among Caterpillar, CFSC, CFC, certain financial institutions party thereto, BTMU, as the Japan Local Currency Agent thereunder, and Citibank, as agent for such financial institutions, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
364-Day Credit Agreement
 
1.6   is amended by adding the following defined terms thereto in appropriate alphabetical order:
Section 1.01
 
 means, on any date, any Subsidiary of Caterpillar or CFSC whose aggregate asset value, as reasonably calculated by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is at less than or equal to $50,000,000 on such date.
Insignificant Subsidiary
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement (364-Day Facility), dated as of March 31, 2009, among Caterpillar and CFSC as borrowers thereunder, certain financial institutions party thereto and Citibank, as agent for such banks, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
March 2009 Credit Agreement
 
 has the meaning as reflected in the financial caption, Other income(expense), in CFSCs Consolidated Statement of Profit as compiled under generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives
 
1.7  The first sentence of is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.02
 
The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing to any Borrower (including the initial Borrowing) shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing:
 
1.8   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.02(a)(ii)
 
(ii)  No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to any Borrower; and
 
1.9   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.03
 
SECTION 3.03. .  The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of any Borrowing to any Borrower which would increase the aggregate outstanding amount of Advances owing to such Bank over the aggregate amount of such Advances outstanding immediately prior to the making of such Advance shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by a Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing such statements are true):  (i) the representations and warranties contained in subsection (f) of are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which would constitute an Event of Default with respect to any Borrower but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Conditions Precedent to Certain Borrowings
Section 4.01
 
1.10   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(h)
 
(h)  .  Each Plan of such Borrower or a Subsidiary of such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate complies in all material respects with ERISA, the Code and regulations thereunder and the terms of such Plan.  Each Plan has satisfied the minimum funding standard under Section 412(a) of the Code without the need of any funding waiver under Section 412(c) of the Code.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate nor any fiduciary of any Plan which is not a Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) (i) has engaged in a nonexempt prohibited transaction described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the Code whereby such prohibited transaction has materially adversely affected the business, financial condition or results of operations of such Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) has taken or failed to take any action which would constitute or result in an ERISA Termination Event.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has (i) failed to make a required contribution or payment to a Multiemployer Plan or (ii) made a complete or partial withdrawal under Sections 4203 or 4205 of ERISA from a Multiemployer Plan.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 of the Code or Section 430 of the Code on or before the due date for such installment or other payment.  Neither such Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC which remains outstanding other than the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due which are unpaid.
ERISA
 
1.11   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.01(i)
 
(i)  .  Such Borrower has paid or discharged, or caused to be paid or discharged, before the same shall have become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon such the Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower or upon the income, profits or property of such Borrower or any Subsidiary of such Borrower, other than (i) such taxes, assessments and governmental charges the amount, applicability or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established, or (ii) up to $10,000,000 at any time in aggregate taxes, assessments, and governmental charges so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
Taxes; Assessments
 
1.12   is amended by inserting the following proviso at the end thereof, immediately following the first proviso:
Section 5.01(d)
 
, , that up to $10,000,000 in aggregate taxes, assessments, governmental charges, and lawful claims as described above may be delinquent at any time so long as no material adverse effect upon the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, could reasonably be expected to result therefrom, and so long as, upon knowledge thereof, the applicable Borrower or Subsidiary either promptly pays the applicable delinquent amount or contests such amount as contemplated above.
provided
further
 
1.13   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.01(f)(viii)
 
(viii)  promptly after (A) the occurrence thereof, notice that (1) an ERISA Termination Event or a prohibited transaction, as such term is defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan of such Borrower has occurred and there shall result therefrom a liability or material risk of incurring a liability to the PBGC or a Plan that will have a material adverse affect upon the business or financial condition or results of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which such notice shall specify the nature thereof and such Borrowers proposed response thereto, (2) such Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate has failed to make a required installment or any other required payment under Section 412 or Section 430 of the Code and (3) the plan administrator of any Plan has applied under Section 412(c) of the Code for a waiver of the minimum funding standards of Section 412(a) of the Code, together with copies of such waiver application, and (B) actual knowledge thereof, copies of any notice of the PBGCs intention to terminate or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
 
1.14   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.03
 
 SECTION 5.03.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, Caterpillar will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, maintain at all times during each fiscal year of Caterpillar, Consolidated Net Worth of not less than $9,000,000,000.
Financial Covenant of Caterpillar
 
1.15   and are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Sections 5.04(a)
(b)
 
(a)  .
Ratio of CFSC Debt to Consolidated Net Worth
 
(i)  Maintain at all times a ratio (the ) of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth of not greater than 10.0 to 1.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio at any time shall be equal to the average of the Leverage Ratios as determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months.
Leverage Ratio
subsection (i)
 
(ii)  Maintain a Leverage Ratio of not greater than 10.0 to 1 on each December 31, commencing December 31, 2008.  For purposes of this , the Leverage Ratio shall be the ratio of (x) Debt of CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to (y) CFSCs Consolidated Net Worth on the date for which computed.
subsection (ii)
 
(b)  .  Maintain a ratio of (i) profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (ii) Interest Expense, of not less than 1.15 to 1, in each case, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended for CFSC and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
1.16   is amended to insert the following immediately after the parenthetical (including the Japan Local Currency Addendum, if applicable):
Section 6.01(d)(i)
 
under the March 2009 Credit Agreement,
 
1.17   is amended to insert the following immediately after the parenthetical (including the Japan Local Currency Addendum, if applicable):
Section 6.01(d)(ii)
 
under the March 2009 Credit Agreement,
 
1.18   is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.01(d)(iv)
 
(iv) any Event of Default shall occur with respect to (a) such Borrower under the 364-Day Credit Agreement, (b) such Borrower under the 2007 Five-Year Credit Agreement or (c) any Borrower under the March 2009 Credit Agreement, or
 
1.19  The proviso appearing in is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.01(e)
 
, , that the filing of one or more of the proceedings and/or the occurrence of one or more of the other events described in this Section 6.01(e) with respect to any Insignificant SubsidiaryEvent of Defaultthe proceedings and/or other events described in this Section 6.01(e); or
provided
however
shall not constitute an
hereunder until such time as the aggregate of the asset values, as reasonably determined by Caterpillar in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, of all Insignificant Subsidiaries subject to
equals or exceeds $250,000,000 (with each Insignificant Subsidiarys asset value being determined, for purposes of this clause (e), on the date on which such filing or other event commences or otherwise initially occurs with respect to such Insignificant Subsidiary, and with such value remaining in effect for such Insignificant Subsidiary once determined)
 
1.20  Clause (i)(x) of the last paragraph of (immediately following ) is amended to delete the phrase by notice to such Borrower and to insert in the place thereof the phrase by notice to the Borrowers.
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(i)
 
1.21  Clause (ii)(x) of the last paragraph of (immediately following ) is amended to delete the phrase by notice to CIF and to insert in the place thereof the phrase by notice to the Borrowers.
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(i)
 
1.22  Clause (iii)(x) of the last paragraph of (immediately following ) is amended to delete the phrase by notice to CFC and to insert in the place thereof the phrase by notice to the Borrowers.
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(i)
 
1.23   is amended to replace the penultimate proviso , , upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to a Borrower described in , (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to such Borrower shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances to such Borrower, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by such Borrower (appearing in the last paragraph thereof, immediately following ) with the following:
Section 6.01
provided
however
Section 6.01(e)
Section 6.01(i)
 
, , upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to any Borrower described in Section 6.01(e), (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances to any Borrower shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances to the Borrowers, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.
provided
however
 
1.24   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-1 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 1 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-1
 
1.25   attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety and Exhibit F-2 attached to this Amendment as Attachment 2 shall be inserted in the place thereof.
Exhibit F-2
 
  .  CFSC hereby reaffirms all of its obligations under Article IX of the Credit Agreement and acknowledges and agrees that such obligations remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified, reaffirmed and confirmed.
SECTION 2.
Reaffirmation of CFSC Guaranty
 
  .  This Amendment shall become effective and be deemed effective as of the date hereof upon the Administrative Agents receipt of duly executed counterparts of this Amendment from each Borrower, the Agents and the Majority Banks.
SECTION 3.
Condition Precedent
 
  .
SECTION 4.
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers
 
4.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each Borrower hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties made by it in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and agrees that all such covenants, representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been re-made as of the effective date of this Amendment.
 
4.2  Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants that (a) this Amendment constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally and by the effect of general principles of equity and (b) upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, no Event of Default shall exist with respect to such Borrower and no event shall exist which, with the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to such Borrower.
 
  .
SECTION 5.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement
 
5.1  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof, herein or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other document, instrument or agreement executed and/or delivered in connection with the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
 
5.2  Except as specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement, the Notes and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
5.3  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any party under the Credit Agreement, the Notes or any other document, instrument or agreement executed in connection therewith, nor constitute a waiver of any provision contained therein, except as specifically set forth herein.
 
  .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  A facsimile or PDF copy of any signature hereto shall have the same effect as the original of such signature.
SECTION 6.
Execution in Counterparts
 
  
SECTION 7.
Governing Law
.  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard for conflict of law principles that would result in the application of any law other than the internal law of the State of New York.
 
  .  Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
SECTION 8.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 1
 
 
 
 
To:  The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility) dated as of September 21, 2006, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c. and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, Citibank International plc, as Local Currency Agent, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Inc. (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Consolidated Net Worth, as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is at least $9,000,000,000 as shown below.
Section 5.03
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 2
 
 
 
 
To:           The Banks which are parties to the
Credit Agreement described below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement (Five-Year Facility) dated as of September 21, 2006, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c. and Caterpillar Finance Corporation (collectively, the Borrowers), the Banks party thereto, Citibank International plc, as Local Currency Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent, Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Banks.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
1.  I am the duly elected ______________ of Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (the Borrower).
 
2.  I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3.  The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date hereof.
 
4.   As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the Borrowers Leverage Ratio as of the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements, is not greater than 10.0 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(a)
 
 
5.  As required pursuant to of the Agreement, the ratio of (1) the CFSCs profit excluding income taxes, Interest Expense and Net Gain/(Loss) From Interest Rate Derivatives to (2) Interest Expense, computed as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by the attached financial statements for the rolling four-quarter period then most recently ended, is not less than 1.15 to 1, as shown below.
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
The foregoing certifications and the financial statements delivered with this Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this _____ day of __________, 200_.
 
CATERPILLAR FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION
By:___________________________
      Name:
      Title:
 



