FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20101210160838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Page 1
On December 8, 2010, the Board of Directors (Board) of Caterpillar Inc. (Company) unanimously elected Jesse J. Greene, Jr. and Miles D. White, effective as of January 1, 2011, as independent directors of the Board, each with a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2011.  A copy of the Companys press release issued on December 8, 2010, regarding the election of Mr. Greene and Mr. White is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
The election of Mr. Greene and Mr. White was not pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between either individual and any third party.  As of the date of this report, none of Mr. Greene, Mr. White or any of their immediate family members is a party, either directly or indirectly, to any transaction that would be required to be reported pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
Mr. Greene and Mr. White will be compensated consistent with previously disclosed compensation programs for non-employee directors and will receive an annual retainer and other stock-based awards as may be approved by the Board.
As previously disclosed in the Corporations definitive proxy statement filed on Form DEF 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 19, 2010, both W. Frank Blount, Chairman of the Governance Committee and the Presiding Director of the Board, and John T. Dillon, Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board, will retire from the Board on December 31, 2010 pursuant to the Corporations Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues.  These guidelines establish a mandatory retirement age for directors of 72 and provide that a directors service on the Board terminates on December 31 of the year in which the director reaches 72.
At the December 8, 2010 meeting of the Board, Eugene V. Fife, was unanimously elected as the Chairman of the Governance Committee and as the Presiding Director of the Board and William A. Osborn was elected as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board, each effective as of January 1, 2011.
Page 2

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
December 9, 2010
 
 
Caterpillar contact:
Jim Dugan
Corporate Public Affairs
309-494-4100
dugan_jim@cat.com
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
PEORIA, Ill.  Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) announced today that Jesse J. Greene, Jr. and Miles D. White have been elected to the Caterpillar Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2011.  Greene will serve as a member of the Audit Committee and White will serve as a member of the Governance Committee.
 
Greene is currently the Chief Financial Risk Officer for International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) where he has worked for approximately 30 years, including a variety of senior positions in finance. He also has acquired senior financial and information technology experience from positions with Compaq Computer Corporation and the Eastman Kodak Company.
 
I am pleased to have Jesse as a member of our board, as he brings with him a deep understanding of finance and information technology that will benefit Caterpillar, said Caterpillar Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman.
 
White has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) since 1998 and as its Chairman since 1999.  He joined Abbott in 1984 and held a number of senior positions with increasing responsibility prior to being named CEO.
 
As the Chairman and CEO of a global company like Abbott, Miles will add a valuable, broad-based perspective to our board, drawing from his experience of leading a company with manufacturing operations around the world, Oberhelman said.
 
About Caterpillar:
For more than 85 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been making progress possible and driving positive and sustainable change on every continent.  With 2009 sales and revenues of $32.396 billion, Caterpillar is the worlds leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives.  The company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar Financial Services, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services and Progress Rail Services.  More information is available at:  .
www.caterpillar.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are subject to known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Words such as believe, estimate, will be, will, would, expect, anticipate, plan, project, intend, could, should or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements.  All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and Caterpillar does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) economic volatility in the global economy generally and in capital and credit markets; (ii) Caterpillars ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for operations and manage liquidity needs; (iii) adverse changes in the economic conditions of the industries or markets Caterpillar serves; (iv) government regulations or policies, including those affecting interest rates, liquidity, access to capital and government spending on infrastructure development; (v) commodity price increases and/or limited availability of raw materials and component products, including steel; (vi) compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations; (vii) Caterpillars and Cat Financials ability to maintain their respective credit ratings, material increases in either companys cost of borrowing or an inability of either company to access capital markets; (viii) financial condition and credit worthiness of Cat Financials customers; (ix) material adverse changes in our customers access to liquidity and capital; (x) market acceptance of Caterpillars products and services; (xi) effects of changes in the competitive environment, which may include decreased market share, lack of acceptance of price increases, and/or negative changes to our geographic and product mix of sales; (xii) Caterpillars ability to successfully implement Caterpillar Production System or other productivity initiatives; (xiii) international trade and investment policies, such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs; (xiv) failure of Cate rpillar or Cat Financial to comply with financial covenants in their respective credit facilities; (xv) adverse changes in sourcing practices for our dealers or original equipment manufacturers; (xvi) additional tax expense or exposure; (xvii) political and economic risks associated with our global operations, including changes in laws, regulations or government policies, currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, burdensome tariffs or quotas, national and international conflict, including terrorist acts and political and economic instability or civil unrest in the countries in which Caterpillar operates; (xviii) currency fluctuations, particularly increases and decreases in the U.S. dollar against other currencies; (xix) increased payment obligations under our pension plans; (xx) inability to successfully integrate and realize expected benefits from acquisitions; (xxi) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or investigations; (xxii) impo sition of significant costs or restrictions due to the enactment and implementation of health care reform legislation and proposed financial regulation legislation; (xxiii) changes in accounting standards or adoption of new accounting standards;  (xxiv) adverse effects of natural disasters; and (xxv) other factors described in more detail under
Item 1A.  Risk Factors in Part I of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 19, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in Part II of our Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 3, 2010 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  These filings are available on our website at .
http://www.caterpillar.com/investors/financial-reporting/sec-filings



