FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20100308160017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following information, including the exhibit described below, shall not be deemed filed hereunder for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On March 8, 2010, Caterpillar Inc. issued a press release relating to its Generator Set Technology Portfolio and Tier 4 readiness.  A copy of the press release is attached and furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K report and is incorporated herein by reference.  The furnishing of the release is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the release includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.  In addition, the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update such information in the future.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
For North America Release: March 2010
Release Number: EEPR0210
Caterpillar Inc. Announces Generator Set Technology Portfolio to Meet  Tier 4 Interim Emissions Standards
regulations for mobile and stationary generator sets.compliancy,
Peoria, Ill.  Caterpillar Inc. announced today its portfolio of technologies to meet Tier 4 Interim emissions
Building on a legacy of diesel engine expertise, we are ready to meet the next phase of emissions
 said William J. Rohner, vice president of Caterpillar Electric Power Division.
Diesel Engine Regulations
equipment powered by diesel engines greater than 130 bkW, including mobile generator sets. Statiseparately,
Beginning January 1, 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will introduce the next phase of its Tier 4 emissions control regulations, which significantly limit emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NO
x
), particulate matter (PM), hydrocarbons (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO). These regulations affect the majority of non-road mobile
onary diesel engines, such as those used in standby and prime power generator sets, are regulated
but to similar standards as non-road mobile equipment. However, the challenges facing the electric power industry are unique in a number of areas, particularly above 900 bkW, where the regulations focus on reducing NO
x
emissions from generator sets by 90 percent, compared to a 45 percent  reduction for other equipment types.
Caterpillar Emissions Reduction
of cleaner engines and integrated emissions reduction techniques. Engineering teams across all of the Cat product lines have leveraged their expertise to enhance customer value while meeting and exceeding both federal and local reguprinciples of performance, reliability and durability as preceding Tier 2 and Tier 3 models, concluded Koval.
The technology used to meet EPA Tier 4 Interim regulations is not new to Caterpillar, explained Robert Koval, global product director of Caterpillar Electric Power Division. It is an evolution of existing technologies used by our organization and our dealer partners for decades. Millions of dollars have been invested in the research and development
lations. Cat Tier 4 Interim generator sets will be built on the same
Technology Portfolio
combination, to address the various emission reduction levels required by the EPA regulations.  The technologies have been developed, in conjunction with the wide range of Cat engines, to provide optimal performance while minimizing impact on generator set space requirements and maintenance hours.  Customers can expect a 25  50 percent price increase on Tier 4 Interim generator set packages.
To provide Electric Power customers with the most economical and efficient emissions solutions, Caterpillar has developed three different engine-integrated technology packages which can be used, in
      
130 - 560 bkW
An electronically controlled air management system lowers the combustion temperature by combining a small amount of non-combustible gas with the combustion air, resulting in decreased NOoutput.
Engine Technology:
x
A diesel oxidation catalyst and particulate filter with an automated regeneration system are incorporated into the package design to reduce PM to less than the regulatory requirement.
Aftertreatment:
      
560 - 900 bkW
An electronically controlled air management system lowers the combustion temperature by combining a small amount of non-combustible gas with the combustion air, resulting in decreased NOoutput. As the regulated PM limit is higher in this power range, the emissions control on the engine alone can meet the requirement without the need for aftertreatment.
Engine Technology:
x
      
900 bkW and above
Low soot combustion techniques, incorporating detail changes to piston bowl design, injector configuration and turbocharger matching.
Engine Technology:
A diesel oxidation catalyst, combined with a selective catalytic reduction (SCR) module, with an air-assisted urea injection system, form the clean air system for larger diesel generator sets. In addition to the Caterpillar-designed aftertreatment system, a dosing control module, diesel emissions fluid (DEF) tank and air source are integrated into the generator package design.
Aftertreatment:
Integrated Systems and Dealer Support
Cat Tier
4 generator sets are capable of integrating into larger power systems that could include UPS, Switchgear and ATS products.  To support this new line of generator sets, Cat dealers and technicians will be factory trained in emissions technology installation and service.
For more than 80 years, Caterpillar Inc. has been making progress possible and driving positive and sustainable change on every continent. With 2009 sales and revenues of $32.396 billion, Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines.
For more information on Cat generator sets and continuous power systems, or to find the Cat dealer nearest you, please visit us on the web at .  For technical information or to have a dealer contact you, visit .
www.cat-electricpower.com
www.catelectricpowerinfo.com/pr
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are subject to known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of Caterpillar Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Words such as believe, estimate, will be, will, would, expect, anticipate, plan, project, intend, could, should or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements.  All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and Caterpillar does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that actual results of the company may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) economic volatility in the global economy generally and in capital and credit markets; (ii) Caterpillars ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for operations and manage liquidity needs; (iii) adverse changes in the economic conditions of the industries or markets Caterpillar serves; (iv) government regulations or policies, including those affecting interest rates, liquidity, access to capital and government spending on infrastructure development; (v) commodity price increases and/or limited availability of raw materials and component products, including steel; (vi) compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations; (vii) Caterpillars and Cat Financials ability to maintain their respective credit ratings, material increases in either companys cost of borrowing or an inability of either company to access capital markets; (viii) financial condition and credit worthiness of Cat Financials customers; (ix) material adverse changes in our customers access to liquidity and capital; (x) market acceptance of Caterpillars products and services; (xi) effects of changes in the competitive environment, which may include decreased market share, lack of acceptance of price increases, and/or negative changes to our geographic and product mix of sales; (xii) Caterpillars ability to successfully implement Caterpillar Production System or other productivity initiatives; (xiii) international trade and investment policies, such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs; (xiv) failure of Caterpillar or Cat Financial to comply with financial covenants in their respective credit facilities; (xv) adverse changes in sourcing practices for our dealers or original equipment manufacturers; (xvi) additional tax expense or exposure; (xvii) political and economic risks associated with our global operations, including changes in laws, regulations or government policies, currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, burdensome tariffs or quotas, national and international conflict, including terrorist acts and political and economic instability or civil unrest in the countries in which Caterpillar operates; (xviii) currency fluctuations, particularly increases and decreases in the U.S. dollar against other currencies; (xix) increased payment obligations under our pension plans; (xx) inability to successfully integrate and realize expected benefits from acquisitions; (xxi) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or investigations; (xxii) potential imposition of significant costs due to the enactment of healthcare reform legislation; (xxiii) changes in accounting standards or adoption of new accounting standards;  (xxiv) adverse effects of natural disasters; and (xxv) other factors described in more detail in Item 1A  Risk Factors in Part I of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 19, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  This filing is available on our website at www.cat.com/sec_filings.



