FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20120221090048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) is furnishing supplemental information concerning deliveries to users for retail sales of machines and sales of power systems (including reciprocating and turbine engines and locomotives) to retail users and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Caterpillar sells the majority of its machinery and power systems to independently owned and operated dealers and OEMs to meet the demands of their customers, the end users.  Due to time delays between Caterpillars sales to dealers and dealers deliveries to end users, Caterpillar believes this information may help readers better understand Caterpillars business and the industries it serves. This information is primarily based on unaudited reports provided by Caterpillars independent dealers which are not subject to Caterpillars internal controls over financial reporting. This information is furnished under this Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  All information provided in these Dealer Statistics is calculated in constant dollars.   Caterpillar does not undertake to update or adjust prior period information.
 
by marketing region for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year:
Retail Statistics of Machines
Reported in constant dollars and based on unit sales as reported by dealers.
*EAME (Europe, Africa and Middle East)
**ROW (rest of the world - everything except North America)
by business sector for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year:
Power Systems Retail Statistics
 
Reported in constant dollars based on reporting from dealers and direct sales.
*Engines for on-highway applications are included in Transportation beginning with the January 2012 reporting period.  Prior periods are not adjusted for this change.
 
 
Page 2
 
**To the extent possible, Caterpillar includes acquisitions in its retail statistics about one calendar year after an acquisition closes in order to have a prior period comparison.  In August 2010, Caterpillar acquired Electro-Motive Diesel (EMD).  Therefore, beginning with January 2012 statistics, EMDs sales of engines and locomotives will be included in the new Transportation sector.  The Transportation sector includes power systems for marine, rail and on-highway applications and locomotives.   In order to provide a consistent comparison for readers, Caterpillar intends to provide statistics for the former Marine sector for the first quarter of 2012.  For the 3-month rolling period ending January 2012 compared with the same months of the prior year, Marine was down 12%.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this filing relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are subject to known and unknown factors that may cause Caterpillars actual results to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Words such as believe, estimate, will be, will, would, expect, anticipate, plan, project, intend, could, should or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements.  All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and Caterpillar does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
It is important to note that Caterpillars actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in its forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries and markets Caterpillar serves; (ii) government monetary or fiscal policies and government spending on infrastructure; (iii) commodity or component price increases and/or limited availability of raw materials and component products, including steel; (iv) Caterpillars and its customers, dealers and suppliers ability to access and manage liquidity; (v) political and economic risks associated with our global operations, including changes in laws, regulations or government policies, currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, burdensome tariffs or quotas, national and international conflict, including terrorist acts and political and economic instability or civil unrest in the countries in which Caterpillar operates; (vi) Caterpillars and Cat Financials ability to maintain their respective credit ratings, material increases in either companys cost of borrowing or an inability of either company to access capital markets; (vii) financial condition and credit worthiness of Cat Financials customers; (viii) inability to realize expected benefits from acquisitions and divestitures, including the acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc.; (ix) international trade and investment policies, such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs; (x) the possibility that Caterpillars introduction of Tier 4 emissions compliant machines and engines is not successful; (xi) market acceptance of Caterpillars products and services; (xii) effects of changes in the competitive environment, which may include decreased market share, lack of acceptance of price increases, and/or negative changes to our geographic and product mix of sales; (xiii) union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xiv) Caterpillars ability to successfully implement the Caterpillar Production System or other productivity initiatives; (xv) adverse changes in sourcing practices of our dealers or original equipment manufacturers; (xvi) compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations; (xvii) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xviii) additional tax expense or exposure; (xix) currency fluctuations, particularly increases and decreases in the U.S. dollar against other currencies; (xx) failure of Caterpillar or Cat Financial to comply with financial covenants in their respective credit facilities; (xxi) increased funding obligations under our pension plans; (xxii) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or investigations; (xxiii) imposition of operational restrictions or compliance requirements if carbon emissions legislation and/or regulations are adopted; (xxiv) changes in accounting standards or adoption of new accounting standards; (xxv) adverse effects of natural disasters; and (xxvi) other factors described in more detail under Item 1A.  Risk Factors in Part I of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22, 2011 for the year ended December 31, 2010.  This filing is available on our website at .
www.caterpillar.com/secfilings
 
Page 3
Page 4


