FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20120618172352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
In addition to the amendments to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws described in the Proxy Statement and voted upon by stockholders as described in Item 5.07 below, the Board adopted amendments to the Company's Bylaws effective on June 13, 2012. These amendments (i) establish that the annual meeting of stockholders shall occur on the second Wednesday in June, unless otherwise designated by the Board, and (ii) set
forth the times and dates for the regular meetings of the Board. This description of the amendments to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended Bylaws, attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
(a) The 2012 annual meeting of stockholders of the Company was held on June 13, 2012.
(b) Set forth below are the voting results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders.

1
EXHIBIT 3.1
CATERPILLAR INC.
BYLAWS
(as amended and restated as of June 13, 2012)
Article I
Offices
Section 1. Registered Office.
The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Section 2. Other Offices.
The corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Article II
Stockholders
Section 1. Stockholder Meetings.
of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to introduce the matter specified in the notice, (3)
the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder and beneficial owner, (4) any material interest of such stockholder and beneficial owner in such business,
(5) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to such business between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons), (6) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, stock appreciation or similar rights, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares, regardless of whether settled in shares or cash) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit from changes in the share price of any class of the corporation's capital stock, or increase or decrease the voting power of such stockholder and beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the corporation and (7) a representation that such stockholder and beneficial owner will promptly notify the corporation in writing of any changes in the information required by this Section 1(b)(ii). Notwithstanding anything in the bylaws to the contrary, no business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this Section 1(b)(ii), or, with respect to the election of directors, the provisions of Article III, Section 1(d) of these bylaws. The presiding officer of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 2. Determination of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
To determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote, the board of directors may fix in advance a record date for each as provided in Article VI, Section 1 hereof.
Section 3. Voting.
Article III
Board of Directors
Section 1. Election of Directors.
between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder;
(e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, stock appreciation or similar rights, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares, regardless of whether settled in shares or cash) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit from changes in the share price of any class of the corporation's capital stock, or increase or decrease the voting power of such stockholder and beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the corporation; (f) a representation that such stockholder and beneficial owner will promptly notify the corporation in writing of any changes in the information required by this Section 1(d)(ii);
(g) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the board of directors; and (h) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the corporation if so elected. The presiding officer of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
Section 2. Meetings of the Board of Directors.
(i) 7:30 a.m. on the second Wednesday in February, April, June, August, October and December.
(ii) one-half hour prior to any special meeting of the stockholders, and immediately following the adjournment of any special meeting of the stockholders.
Notice of all such regular meetings is permitted but not required.
meeting. Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting shall not be required if the time and place are fixed at the meeting adjourned.
Section 3. Action Without a Meeting.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.
Section 4. Compensation of Directors.
The directors may be paid such compensation for their services as the board shall from time to time determine. Directors who receive salaries as officers or employees of the corporation shall not receive additional compensation for their services as directors.
Section 5. Committees of the Board.
There shall be such committees of the board of directors each consisting of two or more directors with such authority, subject to applicable law, as a majority of the board shall by resolution determine. Committees of the board shall meet subject to the call of the chairman of each committee and shall prepare and file with the secretary minutes of their meetings. Unless a committee shall by resolution establish a different procedure, notice of the time and place of committee meetings shall be given by the chairman of the committee, or at his request by the chairman of the board or by the secretary or an assistant secretary. Such notice shall be given to each committee member personally or by mail, messenger, telephone or electronic transmission at the times provided in subsection (c) of Section 2 of this Article for notice of special meetings of the board of directors. One-third of a committee but not less than two members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except as a committee by resolution may determine otherwise, the provisions of Section 3 and of subsections (d), (e) and (f) of Section 2 of this Article shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to meetings of board committees.
Article IV
Officers
Section 1. Officers.
The officers of the corporation shall be a chairman of the board, who shall be the chief executive officer, one or more group presidents, one or more vice presidents, a chief financial officer, a secretary and a treasurer, together with such other officers as the board of directors shall determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of these bylaws, the chairman of the board may be an individual other than the chief executive officer only for a period not to exceed six months commencing upon the effective date
of the election of a new chief executive officer.
Section 2. Election and Tenure of Officers.
Officers shall be elected by the board of directors, shall hold office at the pleasure of the board, and shall be subject to removal at any time by the board. Vacancies in office may be filled by the board.
Section 3. Powers and Duties of Officers.
Each officer shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by an officer authorized
so
to do
so
by the board.
Section 4. Compensation of Officers.
The compensation of officers shall be determined by the board of directors; provided that the board may delegate authority to determine the compensation of any assistant secretary or assistant treasurer, with power to redelegate.
Article V
Indemnification
The corporation shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by, and in the manner permissible under, the laws of the State of Delaware any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to an action or proceeding, whether criminal, civil, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a proceeding), by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate is or was a director or officer of the corporation or any predecessor of the corporation, or served any other enterprise as a director or officer at the request of the corporation or any predecessor of the corporation. The corporation shall pay or reimburse the actual and reasonable expenses (including attorneys fees) of such person incurred in defending any threatened or pending proceeding in advance of its final disposition if the corporation has received an undertaking by the person receiving such payment or reimbursement to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article V or otherwise.
The foregoing provisions of this Article V shall be deemed to be a contract between the corporation and each director and officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this bylaw is in effect, and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts.
The foregoing rights of indemnification and advancement of expenses shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any director or officer may be entitled apart from the provisions of this Article.
The board of directors in its discretion shall have power on behalf of the corporation to indemnify and advance expenses to any person, other than a director or officer, made a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was an employee of the corporation.
Article VI
Miscellaneous
Section 1. Record Date.
record date is fixed by the board of directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote in accordance with the foregoing provisions at the adjourned meeting.
Section 2. Stock Certificates.
Section 3. Corporate Seal.
The corporation shall have a corporate seal in such form as shall be prescribed and adopted by the board of directors.
Section 4. Construction and Definitions.
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws.
Section 5. Amendments.
Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, these bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed at any regular meeting of the stockholders (or at any special meeting thereof duly called for that purpose) by a majority vote of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting; provided that in the notice of such special meeting notice of such purpose shall be given. Subject to the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation and these bylaws, the board of directors may by majority vote of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present
amend these bylaws, or enact such other bylaws as in their judgment may be advisable for the regulation of the conduct of the affairs of the corporation.


