FILE:CAT/CAT-8K-20121220090058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
1
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) is furnishing supplemental information concerning deliveries to users for retail sales of machines and sales of power systems (including reciprocating and turbine engines and locomotives) to retail users and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we are providing information relating to the distribution of machinery by geographic region and power systems by major end use. Caterpillar sells the majority of its machinery and power systems to independently owned and operated dealers and OEMs to meet the demands of their customers, the end users. Due to time delays between Caterpillars sales to dealers and dealers deliveries to end users, Caterpillar believes this information may help readers better understand Caterpillars business and the industries it serves. This information is primarily based on unaudited reports provided by Caterpillars independent dealers which are not subject to Caterpillars internal controls over financial reporting. This information is furnished under this Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Caterpillar does not undertake to update or adjust prior period information.
Caterpillar Inc.
Past 3 Months Dealer Statistics
Retail Sales of Machines
by marketing region for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year:
Reported in constant dollars and based on unit sales as reported primarily by dealers.
*EAME (Europe, Africa and Middle East)
**ROW (rest of the world - everything except North America)
Power Systems Retail Statistics
by business sector for the 3-month rolling period compared with the same months of the prior year:
Reported in constant dollars based on reporting from dealers and direct sales.
To the extent possible, Caterpillar includes acquisitions in its retail statistics about one calendar year after an acquisition closes in order to have a prior period comparison. In August 2010, Caterpillar acquired Electro-Motive Diesel (EMD).
2
Therefore, beginning with January 2012 statistics, EMDs sales of engines and locomotives were included in the Transportation sector. The Transportation sector includes power systems for marine, rail and on-highway applications and locomotives.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this filing relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as believe, estimate, will be, will, would, expect, anticipate, plan, project, intend, could, should or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and we do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Caterpillars actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries and markets we serve; (ii) government monetary or fiscal policies and infrastructure spending; (iii) commodity or component price increases and/or limited availability of raw materials and component products, including steel; (iv) our and our customers, dealers and suppliers ability to access and manage liquidity; (v) political and economic risks and instability, including national or international conflicts and civil unrest; (vi) our and Cat Financials ability to: maintain credit ratings, avoid material increases in borrowing costs, and access capital markets; (vii) the financial condition and credit worthiness of Cat Financials customers; (viii) inability to realize expected benefits from acquisitions and divestitures, including the acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc.; (ix) international trade and investment policies; (x) challenges related to Tier 4 emissions compliance; (xi) market acceptance of our products and services; (xii) changes in the competitive environment, including market share, pricing and geographic and product mix of sales; (xiii) successful implementation of capacity expansion projects, cost reduction initiatives and efficiency or productivity initiatives, including the Caterpillar Production System; (xiv) sourcing practices of our dealers or original equipment manufacturers; (xv) compliance with environmental laws and regulations; (xvi) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xvii) additional tax expense or exposure; (xviii) currency fluctuations; (xix) our or Cat Financials compliance with financial covenants; (xx) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxi) union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xxii) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or investigations; (xxiii) compliance requirements imposed if carbon emissions legislation and/or regulations are adopted; (xxiv) changes in accounting standards; (xxv) failure or breach of IT security; (xxvi) adverse effects of natural disasters; and (xxvii) other factors described in more detail under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2012 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This filing is available on our website at www.caterpillar.com/secfilings.
3
4


