FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20030724165044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
July 24, 2003
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(423) 229-2000
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9 and Item 12:
     99.01 Public release by the registrant on July 24, 2003 of second quarter 2003 financial results.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information Being Furnished Under Item 12).
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On July 24, 2003, the registrant publicly released the registrant's financial results for the second quarter of 2003. The full text of the release is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated into Item 9 of this Form 8-K by reference.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
For Release July 24, 2003
5:30 p.m. EDT
Eastman Announces Second-Quarter Earnings
     Kingsport, Tenn., July 24, 2003  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $0.46 per diluted share for second quarter 2003 versus $0.58 per diluted share for second quarter 2002. Included in results for second quarter 2003 are asset impairment and restructuring charges of $16 million ($12 million after tax) primarily related to the impairment of certain assets in Eastman's performance chemicals and intermediates segment's fine chemicals product lines.
     "We're pleased that our operating earnings without the asset impairment and restructuring charges improved over the year-ago period. However, we continue to suffer from higher raw material and energy costs compared with 2002 and from a generally weak global economy, particularly for manufacturing," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "We are making progress on strategies to improve our performance, and we will continue to drive those strategies going forward."
     Eastman's operating performance in second quarter 2003 was the result of higher selling prices and cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volumes. Operating earnings were positively impacted approximately $12 million by the previously announced change in vacation policy. Operating earnings also reflected the impact of other cost reduction measures, including a reduction in employee pay.
     Second-quarter 2003 sales revenue was $1.5 billion, a 6 percent increase over sales revenue of $1.4 billion in second quarter 2002. The improved revenue was primarily due to higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, that were partially offset by lower sales volumes.
Division and Segment Results 2Q2003 versus 2Q2002
      second-quarter 2003 external sales revenue increased 5 percent compared with second quarter 2002 due to higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that more than offset lower sales volumes. Operating earnings for the division increased without the asset impairment and restructuring charges of $16 million as higher selling prices and cost reduction efforts were partially offset by lower sales volumes. Segments within Eastman Division had the following results:
Eastman Division's
      External sales revenue increased 1 percent compared with second quarter 2002 as favorable foreign currency exchange rates and improved product mix were offset by lower sales volumes. The lower sales volumes, primarily for coatings and inks, were attributed to an increasingly competitive global business environment and weaker end-market demand resulting from unseasonable weather conditions in the northeast United States. Operating earnings for the segment declined slightly as lower sales volumes and a restructuring charge of $1 million offset higher selling prices.
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
     External sales revenue increased 12 percent versus the year-ago period primarily due to higher selling prices that were increased to keep pace with higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for propane. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices more than offset the asset impairment and restructuring charges of $15 million and an unfavorable shift in product mix.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates 
 
      External sales revenue increased 3 percent as favorable foreign currency exchange rates and improved product mix more than offset lower sales volumes. The lower sales volumes were primarily due to lower film sales attributed to weakness in the travel and leisure markets. Operating earnings increased slightly as higher selling prices more than offset higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for ethylene glycol and paraxylene.
Specialty Plastics
     second-quarter 2003 external sales revenue increased 5 percent compared with second quarter 2002 as higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates were partially offset by lower sales volumes. Operating earnings declined $11 million year-over-year as higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volumes were partially offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction efforts. Segments within Voridian Division had the following results:
Voridian Division's
      External sales revenue increased 9 percent compared with second quarter 2002 as higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates were partially offset by lower sales volumes. The decline in sales volumes for PET polymers was primarily in Europe and Latin America as Asian imports increased into these regions, recent environmental legislation for recycle content became effective in certain countries in Western Europe and additional industry capacity came online in Mexico. Sales volumes for PET polymers were also lower in North America in second quarter, a decline attributed to weaker end-market demand resulting from unseasonable weather conditions. However, sales volumes for PET polymers in North America for the first half of 2003 were slightly higher than the same period last year. Sales volumes for polyethylene declined due to weak industry demand that began in early second quarter 2003 compared with second quarter 2002, which was the company's strongest sales volume quarter for polyethylene last year. Operating earnings for the polymers segment declined $6 million compared with second quarter 2002 as higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volumes were partially offset by higher selling prices and cost improvement projects.
Polymers
      External sales revenue declined 4 percent year-over-year mainly due to a negative shift in product mix. The segment's second-quarter 2003 operating earnings declined $5 million due to lower sales volumes of acetate tow, primarily to China, versus second quarter 2002. Acetate tow sales to China were particularly strong in the first half of 2002 due to the timing of customer buying patterns.
Fibers
     The second-quarter 2003 external sales revenue was $16 million compared with $2 million for second quarter 2002. The increase was primarily due to the continued implementation of customer contracts by Cendian Corporation. Operating results for the division improved slightly reflecting increased revenues that more than offset higher costs associated with efforts to increase external sales.
Developing Businesses Division's
Other (Income) Charges
     Other (income) charges for second quarter 2003 and second quarter 2002 reflected gains of approximately $6 million and $15 million respectively due to favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro.
Cash Flow
     Eastman generated $73 million in cash from operating activities during second quarter 2003. The company contributed $50 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in the second quarter and expects to fund its U.S. defined benefit pension plans by a total of $238 million in 2003 versus the previously announced $220 million. The additional $18 million in funding will allow the company to significantly reduce or eliminate its required funding in 2004.
     In June 2003, the company issued notes in the principal amount of $250 million due in 2008 bearing interest at 3.25 percent per annum. Net proceeds from the sale of the notes were $248 million and were used to repay portions of the company's commercial paper borrowings. The company expects that its net debt at the end of 2003 will be similar to its net debt at the end of 2002.
Outlook
     Commenting on the outlook for the remainder of the year, Ferguson said: "In a typical year, Eastman generates about 60 percent of our net earnings in the first half of the year and about 40 percent in the second half. For us to change this pattern in 2003, we will need to maintain our selling prices despite the fact that we face a difficult market environment. While we expect that sales volumes will improve in second half, our profitability will be driven by our relative success in pricing. In addition, we are focused on taking appropriate cost reduction actions to improve our performance."
 
     Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on July 25, 2003, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time. To access the conference call via the live webcast, go to www.eastman.com, investors, event information, audio archives. To listen to the conference call via teleconference, call 800-289-0579 to register and ask for reservation #130684. You will be given a special telephone number to call to listen to the conference call. Following the conference call, supplemental information for second quarter 2003 will be available at www.eastman.com, investors, financial information section.
     Headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. The company has approximately 15,800 employees in more than 30 countries and had 2002 sales of $5.3 billion. To learn more about Eastman and its products, visit www.eastman.com. To learn more about Voridian Division and its products, visit www.voridian.com.
Forward-looking Statements:  This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future global, regional, industry, and specific product and market economic and business conditions; selling prices and raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and improve financial performance; cash flows and uses of available cash, and future pension plan funding and future debt levels; and overall sales volumes, selling prices, cost reductions, and net earnings in the second half of 2003. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for 2002, the Form 10-Q filed for the first quarter 2003, the Form 10-Q to be filed for the second quarter 2003, and the supplemental information for second quarter 2003 on the Eastman Web site at www.eastman.com in the investors, financial information section.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
July 25, 2003
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call at 8:00 AM (EDT), July 25, 2003.
 
TABLE 1  STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
TABLE 2  OTHER SALES INFORMATION
 
TABLE 2  OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
 
TABLE 3  OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) INFORMATION
 
TABLE 3  OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) INFORMATION (Continued)
 
TABLE 4  SALES REVENUE CHANGE  EXTERNAL SALES
 
TABLE 5  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
 
TABLE 5  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
 
TABLE 6  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
TABLE 7  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


