FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20031023172348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
                                                                          
                                                               Delaware
1-12626
62-1539359
                                                          (State or other jurisdiction of                                    (Commission                                 & nbsp;       (I.R.S. employer
 
                                                           incorporation or organization)                                   File Number)                                 & nbsp;     identification No.)
   
 
                                                                                      (Address of principal executive offices)                    
 
(Zip Code)
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12:
 
              99.01    
Public release by the registrant on October 23, 2003 of third quarter 2003 financial results
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2003, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the third quarter of 2003. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated here by reference. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The release uses the non-GAAP financial measure "earnings per diluted share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges." The registrant's management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges included in third-quarter 2003 results, while indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines and continuous efforts to reduce costs, do not reflect ongoing business results. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider results of operations without asset impairments and restructuring costs. Management utilizes earnings excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate and segment performance and in determining certain p erformance-based compensation. This measure is not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The reconciliation table in the third-quarter 2003 financial tables which accompany the release reconciles earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in the registrant's Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, and Retained Earnings, to earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring costs.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Eastman Chemical Company
  
By:
/s/ James P. Rogers
   
   
Name: James P. Rogers
Title: Senior Vice President and 
                                                                                               
Chief Financial Officer
Date: October 23, 2003

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., Oct. 23, 2003 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced a loss of $4.35 per diluted share for third quarter 2003 versus earnings of $0.31 per diluted share for third quarter 2002. Included in the results for third quarter 2003 were pretax asset impairments and restructuring charges of $496 million, which is less than the charges previously projected due to lower than anticipated goodwill impairment (see Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges section below). Third-quarter 2002 results included a favorable change in estimate related to a previously recognized restructuring charge. Excluding these items for both periods, earnings per share for third quarter 2003 were $0.26 and for third quarter 2002 were $0.30 (for reconciliation to reported earnings (loss) per diluted share, see Table 6 in the accompanying third-quarter 2003 financial tables).
"Our third-quarter results are indicative of the many difficult decisions we continue to make as we review businesses and product lines across the company," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "This includes the previously announced work on strategic alternatives to address the underperforming businesses and product lines in our coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks segment and additional steps to reduce costs throughout the company. These actions will strengthen our position in an extremely competitive business environment."
Operating results for third quarter 2003, including the asset impairments and restructuring charges, were a loss of $440 million compared with operating earnings of $61 million for third quarter 2002. Excluding the charges, operating results for third quarter 2003 were lower than the year-ago period primarily due to higher raw material and energy costs partially offset by higher selling prices and the continuing impact of 2003 cost reduction measures.
Third-quarter 2003 sales revenue was $1.44 billion, a 5 percent increase over revenue of $1.37 billion in third quarter 2002. The increased revenue was primarily the result of higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro.
*For reconciliation to reported earnings (loss) per diluted share, see Table 6 in the accompanying
third-quarter 2003 financial tables.
 
Division and Segment Results 3Q2003 versus 3Q2002
Eastman Division's
third-quarter 2003 external sales revenue declined slightly compared with third quarter 2002. Lower sales volumes were mostly offset by higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Third-quarter 2003 operating results for the division were a loss of $466 million, which included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $495 million. Excluding the charges, operating earnings declined compared with the year-ago period due to lower sales volumes and higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction measures. Segments within Eastman Division had the following results:
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
 External sales revenue was flat compared with the year-ago period as improved product mix, higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates offset lower sales volumes. The lower sales volumes are attributed primarily to forgoing sales of certain low-margin products and reduced sales to customers in the coatings resins market who met some of their product requirements internally as a result of lower demand. Third-quarter 2003 operating results for the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks (CASPI) segment were impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges of $411 million. Excluding the charges , operating earnings declined year-over-year due to lower sales volumes and higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by cost reduction measures and higher selling prices.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
 External sales revenue for the performance chemicals and intermediates (PCI) segment increased slightly versus the year-ago period as higher selling prices, improved product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rates were mostly offset by lower sales volumes. Operating results in third quarter 2003 were impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges of $83 million. Excluding the charges, operating results declined due to lower sales volumes and higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction measures.
Specialty Plastics
 External sales revenue declined 4 percent as lower sales volumes, primarily attributed to reduced demand for packaging, film and fiber products with photographic applications, were partially offset by favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Operating earnings for third quarter 2003 were impacted by restructuring charges of $1 million. Excluding the charges, operating earnings increased slightly compared with the year-ago period as cost reduction measures offset lower sales volumes.
Voridian Division's
third-quarter 2003 external sales revenue increased 11 percent compared with third quarter 2002 as higher sales volumes, higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates more than offset a negative shift in product mix. Third-quarter 2003 operating earnings for the division were $36 million, which included restructuring charges of $1 million. Excluding the charges, operating earnings were slightly higher compared with the year-ago period due to lower operating costs, higher sales volumes and higher selling prices that were mostly offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Segments within Voridian Division had the following results:
Polymers
 External sales revenue increased 16 percent due primarily to higher sales volumes, higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. The higher sales volumes were due primarily to strong PET polymers sales in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, attributed in part to warmer than normal summer temperatures, and increased sales volumes for polyethylene. Operating results in third quarter 2003 were impacted by restructuring charges of $1 million. Excluding these charges, operating earnings for the polymers segment were higher compared with third quarter 2002 due to lower operating costs, higher sales volumes and higher selling prices that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. Third-quarter 2002 operating results included approximately $23 million in costs related to operational disruptions.
Fibers
 External sales revenue declined slightly as a negative shift in product mix was mostly offset by higher sales volumes and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Operating earnings declined slightly compared with the year-ago period.
Developing Businesses Division's
third-quarter 2003 external sales revenue was $21 million compared with $4 million for third quarter 2002. The increase was due primarily to continued implementation of customer contracts by Cendian Corporation. Third-quarter 2003 operating results for the division were a loss of $13 million. Division operating results improved versus third quarter 2002 as increased revenues were partially offset by higher costs associated with efforts to increase external sales.
Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges
During third quarter 2003, the company recognized pretax asset impairments and restructuring charges of $496 million. The difference in this amount and the charges projected in the company's Oct. 3, 2003, news release is due to lower than anticipated goodwill impairment. The total charges recognized consist of non-cash impairments charges of $482 million and severance-related charges of $14 million.
The non-cash impairments charges are comprised of:
$194 million related to certain fixed assets included in the CASPI segment
   
$79 million related to certain fixed assets included in the PCI segment
   
$175 million related to intangible assets other than goodwill included in the CASPI segment
   
$34 million related to goodwill included in the CASPI segment
   
 
      The severance-related charges are comprised of:
$14 million related to expected involuntary separation costs resulting from previously
   
announced work force reductions
The CASPI segment's asset impairments and restructuring charges were triggered by the third-quarter reorganization within the CASPI segment structure and changes in business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying businesses and product lines.
Accordingly, the carrying value of fixed assets, goodwill and intangible assets was written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows.
The PCI segment's charges relate to the impairment of fixed assets used in certain commodity and specialty organic chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of underlying businesses and product lines. Accordingly, the carrying value of fixed assets was written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows.
During third quarter 2002, earnings were positively impacted by $1 million as a result of a favorable change in the estimate related to previously recognized restructuring costs in the CASPI segment.
The impairments and restructuring charges include estimates that are based on the best information currently available. Adjustments to such estimates, if any, would be reflected in the financial statements included in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $141 million in cash from operating activities during third quarter 2003. The company contributed $98 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in the third quarter and has completed its expected $238 million funding of its U.S. defined benefit pension plans for 2003. The company anticipates funding of between $0 and $40 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2004.
The company has $500 million of debt maturing in January 2004. It expects to retire and refinance this debt from a combination of cash generated from business activities, new long-term borrowings and available short-term borrowing capacity. The company expects that its net debt at the end of 2003 will be similar to or slightly above its net debt at the end of 2002.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for fourth quarter, Ferguson said, "Historically, the fourth quarter has been our lowest earnings quarter. While we expect fourth-quarter 2003 sales volumes to be similar to year-ago levels, we also anticipate continued pressure from higher raw material and energy costs. As a result, we anticipate that fourth-quarter earnings will be close to break-even or slightly positive."
 
   
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on Oct. 24, 2003, at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, investors, event information, audio archives for the link to the live webcast. To listen via telephone, call 800-289-0579 to register and ask for reservation #638060. You will be given a special telephone number to call to access the teleconference. Following the conference call, supplemental information for third quarter 2003 will be available at
www.eastman.com
, investors, financial information sec tion.
 
Headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. The company has approximately 15,800 employees in more than 30 countries and had 2002 sales of $5.3 billion. To learn more about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
. To learn more about Voridian Division and its products, visit
www.voridian.com
.
 
      ##
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
Forward-Looking Statements: This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and improve financial performance; cash flows and sources and uses of available cash, and future pension plan funding and future debt levels; asset impairments and restructuring charges; implementation of restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation alternatives for certain businesses and product lines; and overall sales volumes, selling prices, costs, and earnings in the fourth quarter of 2003. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumpt ions and expectations, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for 2002, the Form 10-Q filed for the second quarter 2003, the Form 10-Q to be filed for the third quarter 2003, and the supplemental information for third quarter 2003 on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the investors, financial information section.
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
October 24, 2003
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), October 24, 2003.
 
 
TABLE 1  STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS)
 
 
 
 
                  
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
*Sales revenues for 2002 have been reclassified to reflect the Company's new organizational structure and segments effective in the first quarter 2003.
 
          < FONT id=TAB2 style="COLOR: black; LETTER-SPACING: 28pt">           
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
*Sales revenues for 2002 have been reclassified to reflect the Company's new organizational structure and segments effective in the first quarter 2003.
 
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
TABLE 4  SALES REVENUE CHANGE  EXTERNAL SALES
TABLE 5  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
 
 
TABLE 5  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 6  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
TABLE 7  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
TABLE 8  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


