FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20031009144734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(423) 229-2000
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12(a):
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information Being Furnished Under Item 12).
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 3, 2003, the registrant publicly released an update on efforts to improve the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks segment's profitability, comments on work force reductions, and third quarter 2003 earnings expectations. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated into Item 9 of this Form 8-K by reference. This release is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K, because it included disclosure of expected results of operations for third-quarter 2003, a completed quarterly period.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 8, 2003
 

Exhibit 99.01
For Release October 3, 2003
At 8:16 a.m. EDT
Eastman Updates Efforts To Improve CASPI Profitability, Comments on Work Force Reductions And Third-Quarter 2003 Earnings Expectations
KINGSPORT, Tenn., Oct. 3, 2003 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today said that work continues on implementing previously announced restructuring, divestiture and consolidation strategic alternatives to improve the profitability of certain businesses and product lines in the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks (CASPI) segment. "In addition to earnings improvement steps we are taking, we and our advisor, J.P. Morgan, have received numerous inquiries from interested parties regarding these businesses and product lines," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO.
In addition to the work force reductions resulting from the CASPI actions, the company expects global work force reductions of approximately 600 employees through a combination of attrition over the next six to nine months and involuntary separations in the remainder of 2003. These actions are the result of the company's annual budgeting process, with some of the separations having already taken place. Lower costs associated with the work force reductions, together with non-labor cost improvements, are expected to offset anticipated labor and benefits cost increases in 2004, including resumed vacation accrual.
Third-Quarter 2003 Earnings Expectations
Although third-quarter 2003 sales revenue is expected to improve by 5 percent compared with the year-ago period, the company continues to be challenged by a competitive pricing environment and raw material costs above historic levels. Overall, selling prices are expected to decline sequentially and sales volumes are expected to be slightly lower year-over-year. The company said it expects reported earnings per share for the third quarter 2003 excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges to be slightly below year-ago levels.
As previously reported, the company is currently conducting its review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment. The company also continues to review its portfolio of products and businesses, particularly within Eastman Division, and there will be asset impairment charges associated with the completion of this review. Asset impairments and restructuring charges in the third quarter 2003 are expected to be in the range of $750 million before tax, nearly all of which will be non-cash charges.
"As we transition from the current business environment into next year, the combination of our cost reduction actions; restructuring, divestiture and consolidation efforts in the CASPI segment; encouraging growth initiatives and a stronger economy will position us for improved financial performance in the coming year," said Ferguson.
Eastman will announce third-quarter 2003 sales and earnings on Oct. 23, 2003, at approximately 5:30 p.m. EDT. The company will host a conference call with industry analysts on Oct. 24 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, investors, event information, audio archives for the link to the live webcast. To listen via telephone, call 800-289-0579 prior to Oct. 24 to register and ask for reservation #638060. You will be given a special telephone number to call on the day of the teleconference.
Headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. The company has approximately 15,800 employees worldwide and had 2002 sales of $5.3 billion. To learn more about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
:
The statements in this news release concerning expected third-quarter 2003 sales revenue, sales volumes, selling prices, raw material costs, and asset impairments and restructuring charges, as well as some of the significant reasons for such expected results; 2004 economic conditions and financial performance; timing and size of work force reductions; labor and non-labor cost reductions and 2004 labor and benefits cost increases; and implementation of restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation alternatives for certain businesses and product lines in the CASPI segmen t, are forward-looking. Such statements are based upon preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements, in addition to those identified with such forward-looking statements, are detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.
 
 


