FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20040429162912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on April 29, 2004 of first quarter 2004 financial results.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 29, 2004, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the first quarter 2004. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Eastman's management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle included in first quarter 2004 and first quarter 2003 results do not reflect ongoing business results, but that the asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating income are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, specific actions to reduce costs, and other actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported results of operations without the identified asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and c umulative effect of change in accounting principle. Management utilizes earnings excluding these items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. This measure is not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The reconciliation table (Table 6) in the first quarter 2004 financial tables which accompany the release reconciles earnings (loss) per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastman's Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), and Retained Earnings, to earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Eastman Chemical Company
By:
____________________________________
Name: Richard A. Lorraine
          
Title: Senior Vice President and
   
   
   
   
   
  &nbs p;
   
   
   
   
Chief Financial Officer
Date: April 29, 2004
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., April 29, 2004  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced a loss of $0.07 per diluted share for first quarter 2004 versus earnings of $0.27 per diluted share for first quarter 2003. Excluding the items listed below for both periods, first-quarter 2004 earnings per diluted share were $0.52, while first-quarter 2003 earnings per diluted share were $0.09. For reconciliation to reported earnings (loss) per diluted share, see Table 6 in the accompanying first-quarter 2004 financial tables.
Included in the results for first quarter 2004 were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $67 million, with $41 million of non-cash charges related to asset impairments and $26 million related primarily to severance charges. First-quarter 2003 results included other operating income of $20 million from the sale of assets, the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle totaling $3 million and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million.
"Our first-quarter results clearly indicate that we are making progress toward improving the profitability of the company," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "This strong performance reinforces our resolve for taking the necessary actions to continue to improve the company's financial results."
Operating earnings for first quarter 2004 were $15 million compared with operating earnings of $59 million for first quarter 2003. First-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $67 million, while first-quarter 2003 results included other operating income of $20 million and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million. Operating earnings improved year-over-year, excluding these items, due primarily to an increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, cost reduction efforts, higher sales volume and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Sales revenue for first quarter 2004 was $1.6 billion, an increase of 11 percent compared with first quarter 2003. The increase was primarily the result of higher sales volume, favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, and higher selling prices.
 
 
*For reconciliation to reported earnings (loss) per diluted share, see Table 6 in the accompanying first-quarter 2004 financial tables.
 
 
Division and Segment Results 1Q 2004 versus 1Q 2003
Eastman Division's
first-quarter 2004 external sales revenue increased by 4 percent compared with first quarter 2003 primarily due to favorable foreign currency exchange rates and higher selling prices. The division's first-quarter 2004 operating earnings were $15 million compared with operating earnings of $35 million in first quarter 2003. First-quarter 2004 division operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $55 million. First-quarter 2003 operating earnings included other operating income of $20 million and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million. Excluding these items in both periods, Eastman Division's operating earnings for first quarter 2004 improved due primarily to an increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, cost reduction efforts and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Segments within Eastman Division had the following results:
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks
 External sales revenue increased by 7 percent compared with the year-ago period due primarily to favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Operating earnings improved due primarily to an increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, cost reduction efforts and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs. First-quarter 2004 and first-quarter 2003 operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $6 million and $2 million respectively.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
 External sales revenue declined by 2 percent due to lower sales volume and an unfavorable shift in product mix that were partially offset by higher selling prices. The lower sales volume was due in part to a planned shutdown and debottleneck at the company's Longview, Texas, facility. Operating earnings improved due primarily to higher selling prices and cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs and $3 million of asset impairments and restructuring charges.
Specialty Plastics
 External sales revenue increased by 9 percent due to favorable foreign currency exchange rates, higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix. First-quarter 2004 operating earnings included $46 million of asset impairments and restructuring charges mainly related to the closure of the company's Hartlepool, England, facility. First-quarter 2003 operating earnings included $20 million of other operating income related to the sale of the company's high-performance crystalline plastics assets. Excluding these items from both periods, operating earnings improved year-over-year due to an increased focus on more profitable businesses and produc t lines, cost reduction efforts, higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency exchange rates.
Voridian Division's
first-quarter 2004 external sales revenue increased 19 percent compared with first quarter 2003 due to higher sales volume, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and increased selling prices that were partially offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily in the fibers segment. First quarter operating earnings were $21 million compared with $53 million for the first quarter 2003. First-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $11 million. First-quarter 2003 results included $14 million from an insurance settlement related to operational disruptions. Operating resul ts declined year-over-year as higher sales volume, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and higher selling prices were more than offset by high raw material and energy costs.
Polymers
 External sales revenue increased by 20 percent compared with the year-ago period due to higher sales volume, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and higher selling prices. First-quarter 2004 operating results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $11 million due to severance charges. First-quarter 2003 operating earnings included a $14 million gain from an insurance settlement related to operational disruptions. Operating results declined year-over-year as higher sales volume, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and higher selling prices were more than offset by high raw material and energy costs. The ability to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher raw material and energy costs for PET polymers was limited by the impact of capacity additions in North America in 2003.
Fibers
 External sales revenue increased by 18 percent due to higher sales volume and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix that resulted in lower selling prices. The higher sales volume and unfavorable shift in product mix were due primarily to increased sales of acetyl chemicals. Operating earnings increased in first quarter 2004 compared with first quarter 2003 due primarily to higher sales volume throughout the segment.
Developing Businesses Division's
first-quarter 2004 external sales revenue was $24 million compared with $13 million for the year-ago period. The increase was due primarily to the ongoing implementation of customer contracts for Cendian Corporation. Division operating results improved slightly year-over-year.
Cash Flow
Eastman used $34 million in cash for operating activities during first quarter 2004, as accounts receivable increased by $127 million due to higher sales revenue that was largely offset by lower pension contributions and improved operating results. The company did not make a contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in first quarter 2004 and does not anticipate making a contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during the year. The company remains committed to reducing debt and strengthening the balance sheet in 2004.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for second quarter 2004, Ferguson said: "Due to improving economic conditions and normal seasonality, we anticipate strong sales volume in the second quarter. In addition, we expect continued benefit from cost reduction efforts throughout the company. High raw material and energy costs remain challenging and therefore pricing continues to be a key driver of profitability. As a result, we expect second-quarter 2004 net earnings to increase by between 40 percent and 60 percent compared with first-quarter net earnings, excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges in both periods."
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on April 30, 2004, at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, investors, event information, audio archives for the link to the live webcast. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5507, passcode number 531811.
Headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. The company has approximately 15,000 employees in more than 30 countries and had 2003 sales of $5.8 billion. To learn more about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
. To learn more about Voridian Division and its products, visit
www.voridian.com
.
Forward-looking Statements: This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and improve financial performance; future pension plan funding; implementation of restructuring, divestiture and consolidation alternatives for certain businesses and product lines; and overall selling prices, sale volume and earnings in the second quarter of 2004. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions and expectations, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for 2003 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2004 available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the investors, SEC filings section.
 
 
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), April 30, 2004.
 
 
 
TABLE 1  STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS)
 
 
 
 
                  
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
* Sales revenues for 2003 have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between the CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.
 
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
** Operating earnings (loss) for 2003 have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between the CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.
 
 
 
 
TABLE 4  SALES REVENUE CHANGE  EXTERNAL SALES
 
 
TABLE 5  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
 
TABLE 6  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS
 
TABLE 7  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
TABLE 8  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
 
 
 


