FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20040729164637.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on July 29, 2004 of second quarter 2004 financial results.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 29, 2004, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the second quarter 2004. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
Net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and a tax benefit related to assets held for sale.
Operating earnings excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges.
Eastman's management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges and tax benefits related to assets held for sale, do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate and segment results, respectively, without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and segment sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 7 in the accompanying second-quarter 2004 financial tables reconciles operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Earningsto operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and the tax benefit related to assets held for sale.
In addition, the Company has chosen to present sales revenue, operating results, and asset impairments and restructuring charges attributable to restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines. Table 4 in the accompanying second-quarter 2004 financial tables provides this information related to the Company's Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks segment sales revenue, operating earnings and asset impairments and restructuring charges on a GAAP basis. .
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Eastman Chemical Company
By:
/s/ Richard A. Lorraine
Name: Richard A. Lorraine
   
Title: Senior Vice President and 
   
   
   
                                                
 
 
   
Chief Financial Officer
Date: July 29, 2004

Eastman Announces Second-Quarter 2004 Earnings
KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 29, 2004  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $1.07 per diluted share for second quarter 2004 versus earnings of $0.46 per diluted share for second quarter 2003. Excluding the items described below for both periods, second-quarter 2004 earnings per diluted share were $0.82 compared with second-quarter 2003 earnings per diluted share of $0.61. For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 7 in the accompanying second-quarter 2004 financial tables.
Included in second-quarter 2004 earnings were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $79 million and a net deferred tax benefit of $82 million. (For additional information concerning these items, see "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges and Net Deferred Tax Benefit" below.) Second-quarter 2003 earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $16 million.
"We are gaining momentum in improving the financial performance of the company, as our second-quarter results indicate," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "While we are benefiting from a strengthening economy and actions to improve our profitability, we also are confronted by historically high raw material and energy costs and, therefore, will continue our efforts to raise selling prices to offset these costs."
Operating earnings in second quarter 2004 were $41 million compared with operating earnings of $75 million in second quarter 2003. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges for both periods, second quarter 2004 operating earnings were $120 million compared with $91 million in second quarter 2003. (For reconciliation to reported operating earnings, see Table 7 in the accompanying second-quarter 2004 financial tables.) The improvement year-over-year was due primarily to increased sales volume throughout all segments, increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and continued cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Sales revenue for second quarter 2004 was $1.7 billion, a 13 percent increase over second quarter 2003, and was the highest quarterly sales revenue in the company's history. The increase in sales revenue was primarily due to higher sales volume, which was the highest quarterly sales volume in the company's history.
*For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 7 in the accompanying second-quarter 2004 financial tables. Also see "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges and Net Deferred Tax Benefit" for additional information.
Division and Segment Results 2Q 2004 versus 2Q 2003
 
Eastman Division's
second-quarter 2004 external sales revenue increased by 9 percent compared with second quarter 2003 primarily due to increased sales volume. Second-quarter 2004 operating earnings for the division were $7 million compared with operating earnings of $31 million for second quarter 2003. Second-quarter 2004 and second-quarter 2003 operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $77 million and $16 million, respectively. Excluding these charges for both periods, operating earnings increased year-over-year due primarily to higher sales volume, increased focus on more profitable businesses and pr oduct lines, and continued cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Segments within Eastman Division had the following results:
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks (CASPI)
 External sales revenue increased by 8 percent primarily due to higher sales volume. The sales volume increase, mostly in the coatings additives, solvents and adhesives raw materials businesses and product lines, was attributed to strengthening end markets and the marketing of new applications for existing products. Second-quarter 2004 and second-quarter 2003 operating results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $69 million and $1 million respectively. The asset impairments charges in second quarter 2004 related to assets held for sale in the resins, mono mers, inks and graphic arts businesses and product lines. Excluding these charges for both periods, operating results improved throughout the segment. Operating earnings improved for the coatings additives, solvents and adhesives raw materials businesses and product lines due primarily to higher sales volume and cost reduction efforts. Operating results related to the businesses and product lines of the assets held for sale improved primarily due to cost reduction efforts and increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
 External sales revenue increased by 10 percent due primarily to higher sales volume and higher selling prices. The higher sales volume was attributed to a strengthening economy, primarily in North America. Second-quarter 2004 and second-quarter 2003 operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $4 million and $15 million respectively. Excluding these charges for both periods, operating earnings declined slightly as higher sales volume, higher selling prices and cost reduction efforts were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Specialty Plastics
 External sales revenue increased by 12 percent due primarily to higher sales volume. The higher sales volume was attributed to stronger demand in end markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. Second-quarter operating earnings improved significantly due to higher sales volume, increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Second-quarter operating earnings included restructuring charges of $4 million.
 
Voridian Division's
second-quarter 2004 external sales revenue increased by 16 percent compared with the year-ago period primarily due to higher sales volume. Second-quarter 2004 operating earnings were $53 million compared with operating earnings of $62 million in second quarter 2003. Operating earnings declined as higher sales volume and cost reduction efforts were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Second-quarter 2004 operating earnings included severance charges of $1 million. Segments within Voridian Division had the following results:
Polymers
 External sales revenue increased by 19 percent due primarily to higher sales volume. The increased sales volume was due to continued strong end-market demand for PET polymers, especially in North America, and below normal sales volume in second quarter 2003. Operating earnings declined as higher sales volume and cost reduction efforts were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs. Second-quarter 2004 operating earnings included severance charges of $1 million.
Fibers
 External sales revenue increased by 9 percent due to higher sales volume, particularly for acetyl chemicals and acetate tow in Asia Pacific, and improved product mix, partially offset by lower selling prices. Operating earnings declined slightly as higher sales volume was more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Developing Businesses Division's
second-quarter 2004 external sales revenue was $37 million compared with $16 million in second quarter 2003. The increase was due primarily to the implementation of customer contracts for Cendian Corporation. Division operating results declined slightly year-over-year. Second-quarter 2004 operating results included a $1 million severance charge.
Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges and Net Deferred Tax Benefit
During second quarter 2004, Eastman recognized pretax asset impairments and restructuring charges of $79 million. Included in these charges were non-cash asset impairments of $62 million and restructuring charges of $17 million.
As previously reported, during second quarter 2004 the company agreed to sell certain assets, businesses and product lines within its CASPI segment. The non-cash asset impairments charges reflect the recording of these assets held for sale and the adjustment of asset values to the expected sale proceeds. The company also recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $82 million to recognize the expected utilization of capital loss carryforwards that will result from the assets held for sale.
In addition, the company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $17 million during second quarter 2004 related to severance benefits provided as part of the previously announced employee separation programs and ongoing cost reduction efforts.
The asset impairments and restructuring charges and the net deferred tax benefit include estimates that are based on the best information currently available. Adjustments to such estimates, if any, would be reflected in the financial statements included in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $216 million in cash from operating activities during the second quarter of 2004, an increase of $143 million compared to second quarter 2003. In the second quarters of 2004 and 2003, the company made $0 and $50 million, respectively, in contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In addition, cash provided by operating activities benefited from reduced working capital requirements primarily due to an increase in trade payables. The increase in trade payables was largely the result of higher raw material and energy costs, increased sales volume and timing of payments.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for third quarter 2004, Ferguson said: "We expect continued strong sales volume in the third quarter as we benefit from improving economic conditions. However, high raw material and energy costs are expected to remain at elevated levels. Pricing will, therefore, be a key determinant of our profitability. As a result, we expect third-quarter 2004 net earnings to be somewhat higher than the current third-quarter 2004 First Call analysts' mean estimate of $0.63 and somewhat below our second-quarter 2004 net earnings of $0.82, excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges in both periods and the net deferred tax benefit in second quarter 2004."
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on July 30, 2004, at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to
www.eastman.com
,
Investors, Event Information, Audio Archives
for the link to the live webcast. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5507, passcode number 272303. A telephone replay will be available co ntinuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, July 30, to 12:00 a.m. EDT, Aug. 6, 2004, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 272303.
 
Headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. The company has approximately 15,000 employees in more than 30 countries and had 2003 sales of $5.8 billion. To learn more about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
. To learn more about Voridian Division and its products, visit
www.voridian.com
.
 
Forward Looking Statements
   
Forward-looking Statements: This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and improve financial performance; future adjustments to asset impairments and restructuring charges and net deferred tax benefits; completion of restructuring, divestiture and consolidation of CASPI businesses and product lines; and overall selling prices, sales volume, raw material and energy costs, and earnings in the third quarter of 2004. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, e xpectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for 2003 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2004 (available on the Eastman web site at
www.eastman.com
in the investors, SEC filings section).
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
July 29, 2004
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), July 30, 2004.
TABLE 1  STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                  
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
* Sales revenues for 2003 have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between the CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.
                  
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
* Sales revenues for 2003 have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between the CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
** Operating earnings for 2003 have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between the CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.
TABLE 4  CASPI SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE, OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
(1)
Product lines that have been or will be sold or eliminated as a result of restructuring, divestiture, or consolidation including those associated with assets held for sale.
(2)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Company's historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
TABLE 5  SALES REVENUE CHANGE  EXTERNAL SALES
TABLE 6  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 6  PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
TABLE 7  OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE
TABLE 8  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 9  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


