FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20040816160131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 2.
Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
              
On July 31, 2004 Eastman Chemical Company (the "Company") completed the sale of certain businesses and product lines and related assets in the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks ("CASPI") segment to Resolution Specialty Materials, Inc. ("RSM"), an affiliate of Apollo Management, L.P., for approximately $175 million including cash and the receipt of a $50 million note receivable (the "Sale"). The Company retained approximately $40 million of accounts receivable related to these businesses and product lines. These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester r esins), inks and graphics arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals. The final purchase price is subject to adjustment based upon meeting working capital and other targets established in the agreement. In accordance with the terms of the sales agreement, the Company will continue to produce certain products for the buyer under ongoing supply agreements with terms in excess of one year. In addition, the Company indemnified the buyer against certain liabilities primarily related to taxes, legal matters, environmental matters, and other representations and warranties.
              
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 gives effect of the Sale as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines as if the actions were completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 gives effect to the Sale as if the transaction had occurred as of that date.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements presented herein are shown for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the future financial position or future results of operations of the Company, or of the financial position or results of operations of the Company that would have actually occurred had the actions described above taken place as of the date or for the periods presented. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and related notes of the Company's 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K and 2004 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Financial Statements and Exhibits:
EXHIBIT 1
 
EXHIBIT 2
 
EXHIBIT 3
 
 
EXHIBIT 4
 
Notes to the Unaudited Eastman Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
August 16, 2004


