FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20050428171034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 28, 2005, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the first quarter 2005. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
  
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
Eastmans management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, net deferred tax benefit, and corporate and Eastman Division sales revenue including restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate, division and segment results, respectively, without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and division and segment sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate, division and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 8 in the accompanying first-quarter 2005 financial tables reconciles operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastmans Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and the net deferred tax benefit. Tables 4a and 4b in the accompanying first-quarter 2005 financial tables reconciles corporate and Eastman Division sales revenue on a GAAP basis to sales revenue excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
:
 
 (c) Exhibits
  
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
99.01 Public release by the registrant on April 28, 2005 of first quarter 2005 financial results.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., April 28, 2005  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $2.00 per diluted share for first quarter 2005 versus a loss of $0.07 per diluted share for first quarter 2004. Excluding the items described in the following paragraph for both periods, first-quarter 2005 earnings were $1.92 per diluted share, while first-quarter 2004 earnings were $0.52 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 8 in the accompanying first-quarter 2005 financial tables.
 
Included in the results for first quarter 2005 were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $9 million, a net deferred tax benefit of $12 million to recognize the expected utilization of capital loss carryforwards and other operating income of $2 million. First-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $67 million.
 
"Improvement in operating performance throughout the company led to the best quarter of earnings and revenue in Eastman's history," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "These results affirm the many actions we have taken over the last several years to improve the company's profitability."
 
 
 
*
For reconciliation to reported sales revenue and earnings per diluted share, see Tables 4a and 8 respectively in the accompanying first-quarter 2005 financial tables. 
Operating earnings in first quarter 2005 were $244 million compared with operating earnings of $15 million in first quarter 2004. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating income, operating earnings were $251 million in first quarter 2005 compared with $82 million in first quarter 2004. The significant year-over-year improvement was due primarily to higher selling prices throughout the company, higher sales volume from continuing products lines and improved capacity utilization, and cost reduction efforts. Improved first-quarter 2005 results were achieved despite increases in raw material and energy costs of approximately $160 million compared with first quarter 2004.
 
Sales revenue for first quarter 2005 was $1.76 billion, a 10 percent increase over first quarter 2004 and the best quarterly sales revenue in the company's history. The increase in sales revenue was primarily due to higher selling prices throughout the company. First-quarter 2004 sales revenue included sales revenue from restructured, divested and consolidated product lines in the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks (CASPI) segment. Excluding sales from those product lines for first quarter 2004, year-over-year sales revenue increased by 24 percent and sales volume increased by 2 percent. 
 
Eastman Division Results 1Q 2005 versus 1Q 2004
 
 External sales revenue declined by 27 percent year-over-year due to the divestiture of certain businesses and product lines in third quarter 2004. Sales revenue for continuing product lines in the segment increased by 21 percent primarily due to higher selling prices and a 4 percent increase in sales volume. Operating earnings increased substantially due to an increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, higher selling prices, and increased sales volume for continuing product lines that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. Included in first-quarter 2005 results was other operating income of $2 million associated with the 2004 divestiture of certain businesses and product lines.
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
 
 External sales revenue increased by 34 percent due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. The increased sales volume, primarily in the intermediates product lines, was attributed to long-term supply arrangements with key customers, improved end-market demand due to strong economic growth and increased production capacity. Operating earnings increased substantially due to higher selling prices, increased sales volume and higher capacity utilization rates, and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
 
 External sales revenue increased by 13 percent due primarily to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. The higher sales volume resulted mainly from continued strong demand for copolyester products in new applications that was partially offset by reduced polyester and acetate demand for imaging and photo film. First-quarter 2004 operating results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $46 million. Excluding those charges, year-over-year operating earnings declined slightly as higher selling prices, increased sales volume and cost reduction efforts were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Specialty Plastics
 
Voridian Division
Results
1Q 2005 versus 1Q 2004
 
 External sales revenue increased by 28 percent primarily due to higher selling prices. The increased selling prices were mainly the result of efforts to offset rapidly increasing raw material and energy costs, particularly for paraxylene and ethylene glycol. Sales volume declined for polyethylene, attributed to lower end-market demand, and for PET polymers outside of North America, due to continued efforts to improve margins over raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings improved substantially as a result of higher selling prices, improved PET polymers and polyethylene margins, and cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Polymers
 
 External sales revenue increased by 17 percent due to a more favorable product mix and higher selling prices. The favorable product mix was primarily the result of increased sales volume for acetate tow in Asia. Operating earnings increased due to the more favorable product mix and higher selling prices that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Fibers
 
external sales revenue for first quarter 2005 was $21 million compared with $24 million for first quarter 2004. Included in first-quarter 2005 operating results were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $4 million primarily due to the previously announced shut down of the company's Cendian logistics business, while first-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $1 million.
Developing Businesses Division's
 
Cash Flow
 
            Eastman generated $102 million in cash from operating activities during first quarter 2005 primarily due to improved earnings. The company also announced the completion in April 2005 of the sale of its interest in Genencor International to Danisco A/S for approximately $420 million in cash. Priorities for use of available cash continue to be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings and fund targeted growth initiatives.
 
Outlook
 
Commenting on the outlook for second quarter 2005, Ferguson said, "During the first quarter, we made substantial progress recovering our margin over raw material and energy costs that had been compressed throughout 2004, and particularly in the fourth quarter. However, we expect volatile raw material and energy costs will persist and, therefore, our focus on pricing to maintain our margin over raw material and energy costs will continue. We also expect sustained strong sales volume throughout the company and to continue to benefit from cost reduction actions we have taken. We, therefore, expect our second-quarter 2005 earnings per share to be similar to first-quarter 2005 earnings per share and expect that 2005 will be a great year throughout the company."
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on April 29 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, Investors, Event Information, Audio Archives. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5532, passcode number 354617. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, April 29, to 12:00 a.m. EDT, May 6, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 354617.
 
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Eastman is leveraging its heritage of innovation and strength in polyester, acetyl and organic chemistry technologies to drive growth and meet increasing demand in four select markets: building and construction, packaging, health, and electronics. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2004 sales of $6.6 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit www.eastman.com.
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and continue to improve operating and financial performance; overall selling prices, sales volume, raw material and energy costs, and earnings for second quarter 2005; overall operating and financial performance for 2005; and uses of available cash. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for full-year 2004 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2005, available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC filings section.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
April 27, 2005
 
 
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), April 28, 2005.
               
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1  STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS)
 
 
 
 
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                                        &nbs p;                                                                                                                                                                          & nbsp;                                                                                                                                                                         &nbs p;                                                                                                                                                                          & nbsp;                                                                                                                                                                         &nbs p;                                                                                                                                                                          & nbsp;                                                                                                                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
 
 
 
 
TABLE 4a EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
 
 
 
 
TABLE 4b EASTMAN DIVISION DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
 
 
 
 
These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.
(1)
 
 
 
 
TABLE 5  CASPI SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE, OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
 
See note (1) to Table 4a and 4b
(1)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
(2)
 
 
 
TABLE 6  SALES REVENUE CHANGE  EXTERNAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         &nb sp;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       &nb sp;                                                            
 
 
 
 
TABLE 7 
PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 8  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 9  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 10  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


