FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20050728170824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
On July 28, 2005, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the second quarter 2005. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
Eastman's management believes that the gain associated with the sale of the company's interest in Genencor, charges associated with the early repayment of long-term debt, asset impairments and restructuring charges, net deferred tax benefit and corporate, Eastman Division, and CASPI sales revenue including restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability and financial position of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate, division and segment results, respectively, without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and division and segment sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate, division and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 8 in the accompanying financial tables reconciles operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, net earnings and earnings per share excluding the gain associated with the sale of the company's interest in Genencor, charges associated with the early repayment of long-term debt, asset impairments and restructuring charges, and net deferred tax benefit. Tables 4a and 4b in the accompanying financial tables reconcile corporate and Eastman Division sales revenue on a GAAP basis to sales revenue excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on July 28, 2005 of second quarter 2005 financial results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 28, 2005  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $2.51 per diluted share for second quarter 2005 versus earnings of $1.07 per diluted share for second quarter 2004.  Excluding the items described below for both periods, second quarter 2005 earnings per diluted share were $1.59, while second quarter 2004 earnings were $0.82 per diluted share. For reconciliations to reported earnings, see Table 8 in the accompanying second-quarter 2005 financial tables.
 
Included in the results for second quarter 2005 were a gain of $171 million associated with the sale of the company's investment in Genencor International, Inc., charges of $46 million associated with the early repayment of $500 million in long-term-debt, and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $10 million. Second-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $79 million and a net deferred tax benefit of $82 million. 
 
"In the second quarter, we continued to have strong performance throughout the company due to a number of factors, including solid economic growth as well as the actions we have taken to improve our profitability," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "As a result, our earnings for the first half of 2005 were the best half-year earnings in our company's history."
 
Operating earnings in second quarter 2005 were $203 million compared with operating earnings of $41 million in second quarter 2004. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges in both periods, operating earnings were $213 million in second quarter 2005 compared with $120 million in second quarter 2004. The year-over-year increase was due primarily to higher selling prices, higher sales volume from continuing product lines and decreased costs attributed to ongoing cost reduction efforts. Operating earnings increased in second quarter 2005 despite raw material and energy costs that were more than $100 million over second-quarter 2004 levels.
 
Sales revenue for second quarter 2005 was $1.75 billion, a 5 percent increase over second quarter 2004. The increase in sales revenue was attributed to higher selling prices throughout the company and increased sales volume from continuing product lines. Second quarter 2004 sales revenue included sales revenue from restructured, divested and consolidated product lines in the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks (CASPI) segment. Excluding sales from those product lines for second quarter 2004, year-over-year sales revenue increased by 18 percent and sales volume increased by 5 percent.
Eastman Division Results 2Q 2005 versus 2Q 2004
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks 
External sales revenue decreased by 32 percent as a result of the divestiture of certain businesses and product lines in third quarter 2004. Sales revenue for continuing product lines in the segment increased by 15 percent primarily due to higher selling prices particularly for cyclical commodity product lines. Operating results improved due to higher selling prices and a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. Included in second-quarter 2005 and second-quarter 2004 results were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $1 million and $69 million respectively.
 
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates 
The segment's external sales revenue was up by 27 percent due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume, both primarily in the intermediates product lines and attributed to an upturn in the olefins cycle. Operating earnings increased substantially as a result of higher selling prices, increased sales volume and the effect of continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
 
Specialty Plastics 
External sales revenue increased by 17 percent due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. The higher sales volume was attributed mainly to continued strong demand for products in new applications, especially in copolyesters for consumer and medical goods. Operating earnings excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges declined slightly as higher sales revenue was more than offset by increased raw material and energy costs, and expenditures related to growth efforts.
 
Voridian Division Results 2Q 2005 versus 2Q 2004
Polymers
External sales revenue increased by 25 percent primarily due to higher selling prices. The increased selling prices were mainly the result of efforts to offset volatile raw material and energy costs, particularly for paraxylene and ethylene glycol. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and reduced costs attributed to ongoing cost reduction efforts more than offset higher raw material and energy costs, resulting in improved margins primarily in the North American PET and polyethylene markets.
 
Fibers 
External sales revenue increased by 13 percent due to increased sales volume and higher selling prices that more than offset an unfavorable shift in product mix due to higher sales volume for acetyl chemicals and for acetate yarn. The segment's operating earnings were up due to both higher sales volume and higher selling prices that more than offset increased raw material and energy costs.
 
Developing Businesses Division's
external sales revenue for second quarter 2005 was $3 million compared with $37 million for second quarter 2004. The decrease in sales revenue was primarily due to the shutdown of Cendian Corporation, which resulted in the termination of third-party contracts and the reintegration of Cendian's logistics functions into Eastman. Operating results declined due to asset impairments and restructuring charges of $9 million related to the Cendian actions. 
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $107 million in cash from operating activities in second quarter 2005 compared with cash from operating activities of $216 million in second quarter 2004. The decline was due to increased working capital and contributions to the company's U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In the second half of 2005, the company expects to increase cash from operating activities as working capital is reduced. During the second quarter, the company completed the sale of its investment in Genencor for approximately $417 million in net cash proceeds after tax. The company also completed the early repayment of $500 million of its outstanding long-term debt at a cost of $544 million, which resulted in a second-quarter charge of $46 million including noncash costs of $2 million. On an annualized basis, interest expense is expected to decline approximately $25 million as a result of the reduced long-term debt.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for the second half of the year, Ferguson said, "We expect continued strong sales volume throughout the company, and we expect to continue to benefit from cost reduction efforts. We also anticipate volatility in raw material and energy costs; and therefore, our focus on pricing will remain a key determinant of our profitability. We expect full-year 2005 net earnings per share to follow our typical pattern of about 60 percent in the first half and about 40 percent in the second half."
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on July 29 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, investors, event information, audio archives. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5532, passcode number 353547.  A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, July 29, to 12:00 a.m. EDT, Aug. 5, 2005, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 353547.
 
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Eastman is leveraging its heritage of innovation and strength in polyester, acetyl and organic chemistry technologies to drive growth and meet increasing demand in four select markets: building and construction, packaging, health, and electronics. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2004 sales of $6.6 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit www.eastman.com.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and continue to improve operating and financial performance; overall selling prices, sales volume, raw material and energy costs, and earnings for second half 2005; overall operating and financial performance for 2005; and cash from operating activities, interest expense, and long-term debt. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for full-year 2004 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2005, available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC filings section.
Forward-Looking Statements: 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
July 28, 2005
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), July 29, 2005.
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
 
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4a- EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
TABLE 4b- EASTMAN DIVISION DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
(1)
These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.
TABLE 5 - CASPI SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE, OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES, AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
(1)
See note (1) to Table 4a and 4b
(2)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
TABLE 6 - SALES REVENUE CHANGE - EXTERNAL SALES
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
TABLE 8 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE
TABLE 9 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 10 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


