FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20051027165822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
On October 27, 2005, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the third quarter 2005. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
Eastman's management believes that asset impairments and restructuring charges, net deferred tax benefit and corporate, Eastman Division, and CASPI sales revenue including restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability and financial position of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate, division and segment results, respectively, without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and division and segment sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate, division and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 8 in the accompanying financial tables reconciles operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share excluding the asset impairments and restructuring charges, and net deferred tax benefit. Tables 4a and 4b in the accompanying financial tables reconcile corporate and Eastman Division sales revenue on a GAAP basis to sales revenue excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment.  
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on October 27, 2005 of third quarter 2005 financial results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
Eastman Announces Record Quarterly Sales Revenue and Solid Third-Quarter Earnings
KINGSPORT, Tenn., October 27, 2005 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced record sales revenue of $1.82 billion and earnings of $1.50 per diluted share for third quarter 2005 versus earnings of $0.49 per diluted share for third quarter 2004.  Excluding the items described below for both periods, third-quarter 2005 earnings were $1.53 per diluted share, while third-quarter 2004 earnings were $0.79 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings, see Table 8 in the accompanying third-quarter 2005 financial tables.
Included in the results for third quarter 2005 were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $4 million.  Third-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $42 million and a net deferred tax benefit of $8 million.
"Our strong base continued to deliver solid earnings despite the margin compression that occurred toward the end of the quarter due to volatile raw material and energy costs," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO.  "Year-over-year, our third-quarter earnings per share excluding the items described above increased by over 90 percent, and we remain on track for one of the best years in our company's history."
  
 
*For reconciliation to reported sales revenue and earnings, see Tables 4a and 8, respectively, in the accompanying third-quarter 2005 financial tables. 
 
Operating earnings in third quarter 2005 were $198 million compared with operating earnings of $73 million in third quarter 2004.  Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges in both periods, operating earnings were $202 million in third quarter 2005 compared with $115 million in third quarter 2004.  The year-over-year increase was due primarily to higher selling prices, higher sales volume from continuing product lines and ongoing cost reduction efforts.  Third-quarter 2005 operating earnings increased despite raw material and energy costs that were more than $100 million over third-quarter 2004 levels.
Sales revenue for third quarter 2005 was $1.82 billion, a 10 percent increase over third quarter 2004 and a company record.  The increase in sales revenue was due to higher selling prices throughout the company and increased sales volume from continuing product lines.  Third-quarter 2004 sales revenue included sales revenue from restructured, divested and consolidated product lines in the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks (CASPI) segment.  Excluding sales revenue from those product lines for third quarter 2004, year-over-year sales revenue increased by 15 percent and sales volume increased by 3 percent.
Eastman Division Results 3Q 2005 versus 3Q 2004
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- External sales revenue decreased by 7 percent as a result of the restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines in third quarter 2004.  Sales revenue for continuing product lines in the segment increased by 17 percent primarily due to higher selling prices for cyclical commodity product lines.  Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and continued cost reduction efforts more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- External sales revenue increased by 16 percent primarily due to higher selling prices.  Operating earnings increased substantially as a result of higher selling prices and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.  Third-quarter operating earnings included $10 million of operating earnings from the achievement of certain milestones under an acetyls technology licensing agreement.
Specialty Plastics
- External sales revenue increased by 8 percent as higher selling prices more than offset lower sales volume.  The lower sales volume was attributed mainly to the impact on demand of higher selling prices that were largely the result of efforts to offset increased raw material and energy costs.  Lower acetate sales volume for use in photographic film also contributed to the segment's overall lower sales volume.  Operating earnings declined as higher sales revenue was more than offset by increased raw material and energy costs and expenditures related to growth efforts.
Voridian Division Results 3Q 2005 versus 3Q 2004
Polymers
- External sales revenue increased by 19 percent primarily due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume.  The higher selling prices were mainly the result of efforts to offset volatile raw material and energy costs.  Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and ongoing cost reduction efforts more than offset the higher raw material and energy costs.
Fibers
- External sales revenue increased by 24 percent as a result of higher selling prices and increased sales volume.  The higher sales volume was attributed to stronger demand for acetate tow and acetate yarn resulting from structural changes in their respective markets.  Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and increased sales volume more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
 
 Developing Businesses Division Results 3Q 2005 versus 3Q 2004 -
   
E
xternal sales revenue for third quarter 2005 was $2 million compared with $31 million for third quarter 2004.  The decline was attributed primarily to the shutdown of Cendian Corporation.  Division third-quarter 2005 operating results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $3 million related to the Cendian actions.
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $165 million in cash from operating activities in third quarter 2005 compared with cash from operating activities of $119 million in third quarter 2004.  The increase is primarily attributed to strong operating results.  In addition, the company made a contribution of $103 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during the third quarter and has contributed $165 million year-to-date.
Outlook
    Commenting on the outlook for the fourth quarter 2005, Ferguson said, "There is currently limited visibility regarding the degree to which the aftermath of the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast will affect the costs and availability of key raw materials and the economic growth for the remainder of 2005.  In addition, normal seasonality typically reduces demand in some of our businesses and product lines in the fourth quarter.  We remain focused on pricing as a key determinant of our profitability, particularly in the current business environment."
  
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on Oct. 28 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to www.eastman.com, from 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, Oct. 28, to 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time, Nov. 4, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 290845.
    
  
investors, event information, audio archives.  To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5532, passcode number 290845.  A telephone replay will be available continuously
 
 
 
 
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide.  It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers.  Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2004 sales of $6.6 billion and approximately 12,000 employees.  For more information about Eastman and its products, visit www.eastman.com.
 
 This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and continue to improve operating and financial performance; and overall operating and financial performance for the fourth quarter of 2005.  Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results.  Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q filed for second quarter 2005 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2005, available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC filings section.
Forward-Looking Statements: 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
October 27, 2005
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), October 28, 2005.
 
 
 
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
 
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4a- EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
TABLE 4b- EASTMAN DIVISION DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
(1)
These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.
TABLE 5 - CASPI SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE, OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES, AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
(1)
See note (1) to Table 4a and 4b
(2)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
TABLE 6 - SALES REVENUE CHANGE - EXTERNAL SALES
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
TABLE 8 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE
TABLE 9 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 10 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
 
 


