FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20060126172311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
On January 26, 2006, the registrant publicly released its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2005. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
Eastman's management believes that asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, gain on the sale of the investment in Genencor, charges associated with the early repayment of debt, and the net deferred tax benefits, and corporate, Eastman Division, and CASPI sales revenue and operating earnings including restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue and operating earnings from the CASPI segment do not reflect ongoing business results.  However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability and financial position of the company.  Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate, division and segment results, respectively, without the identified items.  Management utilizes corporate earnings and division and segment sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate, division and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation.  These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance.  Table 8 in the accompanying financial tables reconciles operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share excluding the identified items.  Table 5 in the accompanying financial tables reconciles CASPI segment revenue, operating earnings, asset impairments and restructuring charges, and other operating income on a GAAP basis to these measures excluding the identified items. Tables 4a and 4b in the accompanying financial tables reconcile corporate and Eastman Division sales revenue on a GAAP basis to sales revenue excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines sales revenue from the CASPI segment.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on January 26, 2006 of fourth quarter and full year 2005 financial results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

                                                                                
 
Eastman Announces Best Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter EPS in 10 Years
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., Jan. 26, 2006 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $0.81 per diluted share for fourth quarter 2005 versus earnings of $0.68 per diluted share for fourth quarter 2004. Excluding the items described below for both periods, fourth-quarter 2005 earnings were $0.90 per diluted share, while fourth-quarter 2004 earnings were $0.69 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings, see Table 8 in the accompanying fourth-quarter and full-year 2005 financial tables.
 
Included in the results for fourth quarter 2005 were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $10 million, while fourth-quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $18 million and other operating income of $7 million. For additional information see Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges paragraph below.
I'm extremely pleased with the progress that Eastman made this year," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "Both full-year and fourth-quarter 2005 earnings per share were the best in 10 years, and our 2005 sales revenue was the best in the company's history. Recent structural changes we have implemented, along with the dedication of Eastman employees throughout the company, were key contributors to these outstanding results.
 
  For reconciliation to reported sales revenue, see Table 4a in the accompanying fourth-quarter and full-year 2005 financial tables.  
(1)
Excluded items described above for fourth quarter and in full year discussion below.  For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 8 in the accompanying fourth quarter and full year 2005 financial tables.  Also see the Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges paragraph for additional information.
(2)  
 
Operating earnings in fourth quarter 2005 were $112 million compared with operating earnings in fourth quarter 2004 of $46 million. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating income in both periods, operating earnings increased due primarily to higher selling prices and ongoing cost reductions. These positive impacts more than offset higher raw material and energy costs and approximately $12 million of additional costs associated with an operational disruption at the company's Longview, Texas, manufacturing facility. In fourth quarter 2005, raw material and energy costs increased by approximately $100 million compared with fourth quarter 2004.
 
Sales revenue for fourth quarter 2005 was $1.73 billion, a 4 percent increase over fourth quarter 2004. The increase in sales revenue was due to higher selling prices that more than offset lower sales volume.
 
Eastman Division Results 4Q 2005 versus 4Q 2004
 
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- External sales revenue increased by 14 percent as higher selling prices more than offset lower sales volume. The decline in
sales volume was attributed primarily to the differences in seasonal buying patterns for
coatings commodity product lines and the unavailability of certain raw materials for the
adhesives product lines. Operating earnings increased as higher
selling prices and ongoing cost reductions more than offset higher raw material and
energy costs.
 
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- External sales revenue increased by 10
percent as higher selling prices more than offset lower sales volume. The lower sales volume was primarily due to the impact of an operational disruption at the company's Longview, Texas, cracker facility, industry capacity additions in Asia impacting the resins intermediates product lines and continued competitive activity in the plasticizers product lines. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and ongoing cost reductions more than offset lower sales volume and higher raw material and energy costs.
 
Specialty Plastics
- External sales revenue increased by 9 percent as higher selling
prices more than offset lower sales volume. Despite higher sales volume for copolyester
product lines year-over-year, the segment's overall sales volume declined primarily due
to the lower sales volume of acetate used in photographic film. Operating results improved
as higher selling prices more than offset an increase in raw material and energy costs,
particularly for paraxylene and natural gas, due to the Gulf Coast hurricanes and an
increase in expenditures related to growth efforts.
 
Voridian Division Results 4Q 2005 versus 4Q 2004
Polymers
- External sales revenue declined by 6 percent as lower sales volume was
partially offset by higher selling prices. The lower sales volume was attributed to several
factors: the effects of higher and volatile raw material and energy costs in North America due to the Gulf Coast hurricanes, including the impact of Asian producers taking advantage of their lower raw material costs to increase their exports of PET polymers to North America and customers working down inventories; and low PET polymers industry operating rates in Europe and Latin America. Operating earnings declined slightly year-over-year as higher selling prices and ongoing cost reductions were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume.
Fibers
- External sales revenue increased by 22 percent as a result of higher selling
prices and higher sales volume. Operating earnings increased as the segment continued
to benefit from structural changes in the acetate tow and acetate yarn markets.
 
Developing Businesses Division Results 4Q 2005 versus 4Q 2004 -
External sales revenue for fourth quarter 2005 was $1 million compared with $29 million for fourth quarter 2004. The decline in sales revenue was attributed primarily to the shutdown of Cendian Corporation. Operating results for the fourth quarter 2005 included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million related to the Cendian actions, while fourth quarter 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $15 million and other operating income of $7 million.
  
Corporate FY 2005 versus FY 2004
 
For full-year 2005, Eastman reported earnings of $6.81 per diluted share compared with full-year 2004 earnings of $2.18 per diluted share. Excluding the items described in the following paragraph for both periods, earnings for full-year 2005 were $5.93 per diluted share, while full-year 2004 earnings were $2.82 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported results, see Table 8 in the accompanying fourth-quarter and full-year 2005 financial tables.
 
Included in the results for full-year 2005 were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $33 million, other operating income of $2 million, a gain of $171 million associated with the sale of the company's investment in Genencor International, Inc., a charge of $46 million associated with the early repayment of $500 million in long-term debt, and a net deferred tax benefit of $12 million. Full-year 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $206 million, other operating income of $7 million and a net deferred tax benefit of $90 million.
 
Operating earnings for full-year 2005 were $757 million compared with operating earnings for full-year 2004 of $175 million. Full-year 2005 operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $33 million and other operating income of $2 million. Operating earnings for full-year 2004 included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $206 million and other operating income of $7 million. Excluding those items for both periods, operating earnings increased substantially as higher selling prices, a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and ongoing cost reductions more than offset lower sales volume and higher raw material and energy costs. In 2005, raw material and energy costs increased by approximately $500 million compared to the prior year.
 
Eastmans full-year 2005 sales revenue was $7.06 billion, a 7 percent year-over-year increase that was due to higher selling prices. Excluding sales from the restructured, divested and consolidated product lines in the CASPI segment for 2004, sales revenue increased by 15 percent and sales volume was flat for 2005 compared with 2004.
 
Eastman Division Results FY 2005 versus FY 2004
 
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- External sales revenue declined
by 16 percent, primarily the result of the divestiture of certain businesses and product
lines in third quarter 2004. Sales revenue from continuing product lines increased by 17
percent while sales volume declined by 1 percent in 2005 compared with 2004. The
higher sales revenue was primarily due to higher selling prices, which were the result of
improved market conditions and efforts to offset higher raw material and energy costs.
For 2005, operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $4 million and other operating income of $2 million, while 2004 operating earnings included
asset impairments and restructuring charges of $81 million. Excluding those items for
both periods, operating earnings increased in 2005 compared with 2004 due to higher
selling prices, an increased focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and
ongoing cost reductions that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. For
reconciliation to reported sales revenue and operating earnings, see Table 5 in the
accompanying fourth-quarter and full-year 2005 financial tables.
 
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- External sales revenue increased by 21
percent, primarily the result of higher selling prices and increased sales volume. The
higher selling prices were primarily due to improved market conditions, particularly for
intermediates businesses and product lines, and efforts to offset higher raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings for 2005 included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $11 million while 2004 operating earnings included asset impairments  and restructuring charges of $38 million. Excluding those items for both periods, operating
earnings increased as higher selling prices, increased sales volume and ongoing cost
reductions more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
 
Specialty Plastics
- External sales revenue increased 12 percent as a result of higher selling prices. Sales volume was flat as increased sales volume for copolyester product lines was offset by lower sales volume of acetate used in photographic film. Operating earnings for 2004 included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $53 million. Excluding those charges, operating earnings declined slightly year-over-year as higher selling prices, improved product mix and ongoing cost reductions were more than offset by higher and volatile raw material and energy costs, primarily due to the impact of the Gulf Coast hurricanes, and an increase in expenditures related to growth efforts.
Voridian Division Results FY 2005 versus FY 2004
 
Polymers
- External sales revenue increased by 15 percent as higher selling prices more
than offset lower sales volume. The lower sales volume was attributed to the effects of higher and v
olatile raw material and energy costs in North America due to the Gulf Coast hurricanes, including the impact of an increase in Asian exports of PET polymers to North America and low industry capacity utilization rates for PET polymers in Europe and Latin America. The 2004 operating earnings included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $13 million. Excluding those charges, operating earnings increased substantially year-over-year as higher selling prices, improved market conditions for polyethylene and for North
American PET polymers prior to the Gulf Coast hurricanes, and ongoing cost reductions
more than offset higher and volatile raw material and energy costs.
 
Fibers
- External sales revenue increased by 19 percent mainly as a result of higher
selling prices and increased sales volume. The increased sales volume was primarily due
to the continued positive impact of structural changes in the acetate tow and acetate yarn
markets. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and increased sales
volume more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
 
Developing Businesses Division Results FY 2005 versus FY 2004
- External sales revenue for 2005 was $27 million compared with $121 million for 2004. The decline was primarily due to the shutdown of Cendian Corporation. Operating results for 2005 included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $18 million primarily related to the Cendian actions, while 2004 results included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $21 million and other operating income of $7 million. Excluding those items, operating results improved year-over-year due to reduced operating losses associated with Cendian and reduced spending for growth initiatives within the segment.
 
Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges
For fourth quarter 2005, asset impairments and restructuring charges totaled $10 million, primarily related to previously impaired sites. 
For full-year 2005, asset impairments and restructuring charges totaled $33 million, which included $18 million related to the Developing Businesses Division, primarily the shutdown of Cendian, and $15 million primarily related to previously impaired sites.
Foreign Earnings Repatriation and Provision for Income Taxes
During fourth quarter 2005, the company repatriated $321 million in undistributed foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. Dividends were funded from existing off-shore cash and proceeds from a new credit facility. Fourth-quarter 2005 results included a tax charge of $12 million related to the repatriation and a tax credit of $15 million related to the favorable resolution of prior periods' tax contingencies.
 
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $764 million in cash from operations in 2005 versus $494 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to a significant increase in earnings partially offset by higher pension contributions. Contributions to the companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $165 million in 2005 and $3 million in 2004. In second quarter 2005, the company completed the sale of its investment in Genencor for approximately $417 million in net cash proceeds after tax and also completed the early repayment of $500 million of its outstanding long-term debt at a cost of $544 million. In fourth quarter 2005, the company loaned $125 million to the Primester joint venture, which was used to repay third-party borrowings that had been guaranteed by Eastman. Net debt for the company, defined as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, declined $636 million in 2005.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for first quarter 2006, Ferguson said: We are off to a good start in the quarter, led by our strong base of earnings which consists of the Fibers, CASPI, and Specialty Plastics segments. Asian imports of PET polymers into North America and challenging market conditions in certain propylene derivatives in the PCI segment are expected to be headwinds. In addition, we anticipate continued high and volatile raw material and energy costs. As a result, we believe the current range of first quarter 2006 analyst estimates on First Call, which is $1.29 to $1.54, reasonably reflects the variability in the quarter with our current expectation being that earnings will be toward the low end of the range."
 
 
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on Jan. 27, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to
www.eastman.com
,
investors, event information, audio archives. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5509, passcode 5045345.  A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, Jan. 27, to 12:00 midnight Eastern Time, Feb. 3, at 888-203-1112, passcode 5045345.
            Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $7 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.
Forward Looking Statements:
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future economic and business conditions; raw material and energy costs; company strategies, actions and efforts to control and reduce costs and to increase overall selling prices and improve financial performance; the impact of Asian imports on the Polymers segment's North American PET sales; market conditions for certain PCI segment intermediates product lines; and overall selling prices, sales volume, raw material and energy costs and other costs and expenses, and earnings for first quarter 2006 for Eastman and certain of its segments. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q filed for third quarter 2005 and the Form 10-K to be filed for full-year 2005, available on the Eastman web site at
www.eastman.com
in the Investors, SEC filings section.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
January 26, 2006
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), January 27, 2006.
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
 
TABLE 2 - OTHER SALES INFORMATION (Continued)
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4a- EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
TABLE 4b- EASTMAN DIVISION DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
(1)
These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.
TABLE 5 - CASPI SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE, OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
(1)
See note (1) to Table 4a and 4b
(2)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
TABLE 6 - SALES REVENUE CHANGE - EXTERNAL SALES
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 7 - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME (Continued)
TABLE 8 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE
TABLE 8 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE (continued)
TABLE 9 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 10 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


