FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20060727170035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On July 27, 2006, the registrant publicly released its financial results for second quarter 2006. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Eastman Chemical Company Operating Earnings, Earnings Before Tax, Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding: asset impairments and restructuring charges, income from equity investment in Genencor, and early debt extinguishment costs.
Eastmans management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges, income from equity investment in Genencor, and early debt extinguishment costs do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported corporate and segment results, respectively, without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 5 in the accompanying second-quarter 2006 financial tables reconciles operating earnings, earnings before tax,  net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastmans Consolidated Statements of Earnings to operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, income from equity investment in Genencor, and early debt extinguishment costs.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on July 27, 2006 of second quarter 2006 financial results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 27, 2006 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $1.37 per diluted share for second quarter 2006 versus earnings of $2.51 per diluted share for second quarter 2005. Excluding the items described in the table below, second-quarter 2006 earnings were $1.40 per diluted share, while second-quarter 2005 earnings were $1.59 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 5 in the accompanying second-quarter 2006 financial tables.
"In the second quarter, we continued to deliver strong earnings reflecting the value of our broad base of businesses," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "These results are despite high and volatile raw material and energy costs as well as continued challenging conditions for global PET polymers product lines."
 
 
 
*
For reconciliation to reported operating earnings and earnings per diluted share, see Table 5 in the accompanying second-quarter 2006 financial tables. 
 
Sales revenue for second quarter 2006 was $1.9 billion, a 10 percent increase over second quarter 2005. The increase in sales revenue was due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices.
Operating earnings in second quarter 2006 were $190 million compared with operating earnings in second quarter 2005 of $203 million. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges for both periods, operating earnings were $193 million in second quarter 2006 compared with $213 million in second quarter 2005. The year-over-year decline was due primarily to lower operating earnings in the performance polymers segment. The company's second-quarter 2006 raw material and energy costs increased by approximately $125 million compared with second quarter 2005.
Segment Results 2Q 2006 versus 2Q 2005
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- Sales revenue increased by 11 percent primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly in the adhesives product lines, and higher sales volume, particularly in the coatings product lines. The higher selling prices in the adhesives product lines were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, while the increased sales volume in the coatings product lines was attributed to strengthened end-market demand. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and higher sales volume were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Fibers
- Sales revenue increased by 16 percent due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume. The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs as well as continued strong demand for and limited supply of acetate yarn and acetyl chemical products. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and higher sales volume more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- Sales revenue increased by 14 percent due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume. The higher selling prices, particularly for the intermediates product lines, were in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and higher sales volume offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Performance Polymers
- Sales revenue increased by 5 percent primarily due to higher sales volume. The higher sales volume, particularly for PET polymers in Latin America and Europe, was partially offset by lower sales volume for PET polymers in North America due to continued above historical levels of Asian imports into the region. Operating earnings for the segment declined due primarily to higher raw material and energy costs and lower selling prices for PET polymers globally.
Specialty Plastics
- Sales revenue increased by 12 percent due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices. The higher sales volume was driven by continued market development efforts, particularly in copolyester product lines. Selling prices increased to offset higher raw material and energy costs with increases limited by competitive industry dynamics. Operating earnings declined due to an increase in expenditures related to growth efforts, including the company's copolyester technology innovation with the expectation that the first family of such products will be introduced in 2007.
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $126 million in cash from operating activities during second quarter 2006 primarily due to continued strong net earnings. During the quarter, the company contributed $30 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and continues to expect a full-year 2006 contribution of $75 million. The company's priorities for use of available cash continue to be to pay the dividend and to fund targeted growth initiatives and its defined benefit pension plans.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for the second half of the year, Ferguson said, "We expect continued solid results from our strong base of businesses. In addition, we anticipate high and volatile raw material and energy costs, particularly for paraxylene and propane. We also expect sales volume to be somewhat lower due to normal seasonality and planned maintenance. As a result, we expect full-year 2006 net earnings per share to follow our typical pattern of about 60 percent in the first half and about 40 percent in the second half."
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on July 28 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to
www.eastman.com
,
Investors, Event Information, Audio Archives. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5571, passcode number 3311437. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, July 28, to 12:00 midnight EDT, Aug. 4, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 3311437.
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $7 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.
Forward Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future raw material and energy costs; sales volume, and earnings for the company and for certain segments and product lines; uses of available cash; and development and introduction of new technologies and products. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q filed for first quarter 2006 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2006, available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC filings section.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
July 27, 2006
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), July 28, 2006.
 
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
TABLE 2A - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
TABLE 2B - SALES REVENUE CHANGE
TABLE 2C - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4A - SALES BY REGION
TABLE 4B - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME BY REGION
TABLE 5 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS
TABLE 5 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS (CONTINUED)
TABLE 6 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 7 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


