FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20061026170047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On October 26, 2006, the registrant publicly released its financial results for third quarter 2006. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Eastman Chemical Company Operating Earnings, Earnings Before Tax, Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges.
Eastmans management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that this item is indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines and results of continuous efforts and actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported results without the identified item. Management utilizes sales revenue and operating results excluding the identified item in the measures it uses to evaluate business performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. This measure is not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 6 in the accompanying third quarter 2006 financial tables reconciles operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastmans Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, earnings before tax, net earnings and earnings per share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges.
In addition, the Company has chosen to present sales revenue and operating earnings (loss) attributable to product lines being divested. Tables 4 and 5 in the accompanying third quarter 2006 financial tables provide this information on a GAAP basis.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on October 26, 2006 of third quarter 2006 financial results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

For Release October 26, 2006
 
 
 
  
Contacts:
5:00 p.m. EDT
 
 
 
 
   
 
Media: Nancy Ledford
                                                                                                                        423-229-5264 /
nledford@eastman.com
                                                                                                                       
Investors: Greg Riddle
                                        212-835-1620 /
griddle@eastman.com
KINGSPORT, Tenn., Oct. 26, 2006 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $1.15 per diluted share for third quarter 2006 versus earnings of $1.50 per diluted share for third quarter 2005. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, third-quarter 2006 earnings were $1.24 per diluted share, while third-quarter 2005 earnings were $1.53 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see in the accompanying third-quarter 2006 financial tables.
Table 6
"In the third quarter, we established a record for sales revenue in a quarter driven by higher selling prices needed to offset high raw material and energy costs," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "We continue to deliver strong results, particularly in our solid base of businesses that include the fibers; the coatings, adhesives, specialty polymers and inks; and the specialty plastics segments."
* For reconciliation to reported operating earnings and earnings per diluted share, see in the accompanying third-quarter 2006 financial tables. 
Table 6
NOTE: Sales revenue and operating earnings for product lines being divested are in Tables and in the accompanying third-quarter 2006 financial tables.
4
5
 
Sales revenue for third quarter 2006 was $2 billion, an 8 percent increase over third quarter 2005. The increase in sales revenue was due to higher selling prices throughout the company.
Operating earnings in third quarter 2006 were $158 million compared with operating earnings of $198 million in third quarter 2005. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges for both periods, operating earnings were $171 million in third quarter 2006 compared with $202 million in third quarter 2005. The year-over-year decline was due to increased raw material and energy costs and minor operational disruptions that were partially offset by higher selling prices. The company's third-quarter 2006 raw material and energy costs increased by approximately $175 million compared with third quarter 2005.
Segment Results 3Q 2006 versus 3Q 2005
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- Sales revenue increased by 10 percent due to higher selling prices. The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings declined, particularly for cyclical commodity and for adhesives product lines, as increased raw material and energy costs were partially offset by higher selling prices.
Fibers
- Sales revenue was flat as higher selling prices were offset by lower sales volume and an unfavorable shift in product mix. The lower sales volume was primarily a result of reduced operating rates due to minor operational disruptions. Operating earnings declined slightly as higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume were partially offset by higher selling prices.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- Sales revenue increased by 7 percent due to higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates product lines, in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Third-quarter 2006 operating earnings included an asset impairment charge of $11 million related to the pending divestiture of the Arkansas manufacturing facility, assets and product lines. Third-quarter 2005 operating earnings included $10 million from the achievement of certain milestones under an acetyls technology licensing agreement.
Performance Polymers
- Sales revenue increased by 10 percent due to higher selling prices
that were partially offset by lower sales volume. The lower sales volume, primarily for PET polymers in North America and for polyethylene, was due to continued high levels of Asian PET polymers imports and minor polyethylene operational disruptions. The higher selling prices were due to efforts to offset higher raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings declined as increased raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume, particularly for PET polymers in North America, were partially offset by higher selling prices.
Specialty Plastics
- Sales revenue increased by 16 percent due primarily to higher sales volume and higher selling prices. The higher sales volume was attributed to continued market development efforts, particularly for copolyester product lines. Operating earnings increased slightly as higher sales volume and higher selling prices were mostly offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $70 million in cash from operating activities during third quarter 2006 reflecting continued strong net earnings partially offset by an increase in working capital.  During the quarter, the company made a $25 million contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan, completing its planned 2006 contribution of $75 million.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for the fourth quarter, Ferguson said, "We anticipate normal seasonality will reduce demand in some of our businesses and product lines during the quarter. We also expect volatility in raw material and energy costs, particularly for paraxylene and propane. However, we expect continued solid results from our strong base of businesses and expect fourth-quarter 2006 earnings per share excluding gains and charges related to ongoing strategic decisions to be at or above fourth-quarter 2005 earnings per share of $0.90 excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges."
 
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on Oct. 27 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to
www.investors.eastman.com
.
To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5571, passcode number 9177448. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, Oct. 27, to 12:00 midnight EDT, Nov. 3, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 9177448.
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $7 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.
##
Forward Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for fourth-quarter 2006 sales volume, raw material and energy costs and earnings for the company and for certain segments and product lines, and gains and charges in fourth quarter 2006 related to recent and possible future strategic actions and decisions. 
Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q for second quarter 2006 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2006, available on the Eastman web site at
www.eastman.com
,
Investors, SEC Filings.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
October 26, 2006
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), October 27, 2006.
 
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
TABLE 2A - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
TABLE 2B - SALES REVENUE CHANGE
TABLE 2C - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
TABLE 2D - SALES BY REGION
TABLE 2E - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME BY REGION
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4 - EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE
(1)
Definitive agreement entered into in October 2006 for the sale of the polyethylene and
Epolene
polymer businesses and related assets of the Performance Polymers and Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segments located at the Longview, Texas site and the Company's ethylene pipeline.
(2)
Definitive agreement entered into in July 2006 for the sale of the Company's Batesville, Arkansas manufacturing facility and related assets and the specialty organic chemicals product lines in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment.
TABLE 5 - PERFORMANCE POLYMERS SEGMENT DETAIL OF SALES REVENUE AND OPERATING EARNINGS
(1)
Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which may remain and could be reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments.
TABLE 6 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS
TABLE 6 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS (CONTINUED)
TABLE 7 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
TABLE 8 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


