FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20060427171115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On April 27, 2006, the registrant publicly released its financial results for first quarter 2006. The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
This Form 8-K includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Eastman Chemical Company Operating Earnings, Earnings Before Income Taxes, Net Earnings and Net Earnings Per Diluted Share excluding: asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and net deferred tax benefit related to sales of certain businesses, product lines, and assets in the CASPI segment.
Eastmans management believes that the asset impairments and restructuring charges, net deferred tax benefit, and other operating income do not reflect ongoing business results. However, management believes that these items are indicative of the performance of certain businesses and product lines, results of continuous efforts to reduce costs, and results of other actions to improve the profitability of the company. Management believes that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends if they also consider the reported results without the identified items. Management utilizes corporate earnings and operating results excluding the identified items in the measures it uses to evaluate corporate and segment performance and in determining certain performance-based compensation. These measures are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as alternatives to the GAAP measures of performance. Table 5 in the accompanying first-quarter 2006 financial tables reconciles operating earnings, earnings before income taxes, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share on a GAAP basis, as reflected in Eastmans Consolidated Statements of Earnings, to operating earnings, earnings before income taxes, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, other operating income, and net deferred tax benefit.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on April 27, 2006 of first quarter 2006 financial results.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., April 27, 2006 - Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $1.27 per diluted share for first quarter 2006 versus earnings of $2.00 per diluted share for first quarter 2005. Excluding the items described in the table below, first-quarter 2006 earnings were $1.36 per diluted share, while first-quarter 2005 earnings were $1.92 per diluted share. For reconciliation to reported earnings per diluted share, see Table 5 in the accompanying first-quarter 2006 financial tables.
"Our broad base of businesses continued to deliver solid results in the first quarter," said Brian Ferguson, chairman and CEO. "We made good progress offsetting high and volatile raw material and energy costs while maintaining strong sales volume. We also continue to benefit from the actions taken over the last several years to improve company performance."
 
   
 
 
   
*
For reconciliation to reported operating earnings and earnings per diluted share, see Table 5 in the accompanying first-quarter 2006 financial tables.  For additional detail regarding first-quarter 2006 charges, see CASPI segment results paragraph below.
 
Sales revenue for first quarter 2006 was $1.8 billion, a 2 percent increase over first quarter 2005. The increase in sales revenue was primarily due to higher selling prices throughout the company.
Operating earnings in first quarter 2006 were $184 million compared with operating earnings of $244 million in first quarter 2005. Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating income, operating earnings were $191 million in first quarter 2006 compared with $251 million in first quarter 2005. The year-over-year decline was due primarily to lower operating earnings in the polymers segment. The company's first-quarter 2006 raw material and energy costs increased by approximately $100 million compared with first quarter 2005. First-quarter 2006 results were also impacted by approximately $19 million of costs associated with operational disruptions at the company's Longview, Texas, manufacturing facility.
Segment Results 1Q 2006 versus 1Q 2005
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
- Sales revenue increased by 10 percent primarily due to higher selling prices throughout the segment. Operating earnings declined, particularly in adhesives product lines, due primarily to moderately lower sales volume and the unfavorable effect of a strengthening U.S. dollar versus the euro. Operating earnings also included asset impairments and restructuring charges of $7 million related to the divestiture of a previously closed manufacturing facility.
Fibers
-Sales revenue increased by 15 percent primarily due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices that were partially offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix. The higher sales volume was due primarily to the segment's acetyl chemicals product lines that benefited from stronger global industry acetate tow demand and increased market share resulting from a change in industry structure for acetate yarn product lines. The unfavorable shift in product mix was due to increased sales volume for acetyl chemicals product lines. Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices and increased sales volume more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
- Sales revenue increased by 6 percent due to higher selling prices that more than offset lower sales volume. The lower sales volume, primarily in the intermediates product lines, was due to the impact of operational disruptions at the company's Longview, Texas, cracker facility. The decline in operating earnings was attributed in large part to the impact on resins intermediates products lines of industry capacity additions in Asia.
 
Polymers
- Sales revenue declined by 5 percent primarily due to lower selling prices and decreased sales volume for PET polymers globally partially offset by higher selling prices for polyethylene product lines. The lower selling prices for PET polymers were attributed to lower global industry capacity utilization rates for PET polymers. Operating earnings declined primarily in PET polymers globally due to lower selling prices. In addition, higher raw material and energy costs more than offset increased selling prices for polyethylene product lines.
 
Specialty Plastics
- Sales revenue increased by 5 percent due primarily to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. Operating earnings declined slightly as higher selling prices and increased sales volume were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, the unfavorable effect of a strengthening U.S. dollar versus the euro and an increase in expenditures related to growth efforts.
With the recent actions taken in the Developing Businesses segment, including the shutdown and reintegration of Cendian Corporation's logistics activities in second quarter 2005 and the sale of
Ariel Research Corporation in fourth quarter 2004,
the criteria for a reportable operating segment are no longer met. Eastman's management has determined that the Developing Businesses segment is not of continuing significance for financial reporting purposes. As a result, revenues and costs previously included in the Developing Businesses segment and research and development expenditures not identifiable to a particular operating segment are not included in segment operating results for either of the periods presented and are shown in Tables 2 and 3 as "other" revenues, costs and losses.
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $37 million in cash from operating activities during first quarter 2006 primarily due to continued strong net earnings. During the quarter, the company made a $20 million contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and continues to expect a full-year 2006 contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan of $75 million. Priorities for use of available cash continue to be to pay the dividend and to fund targeted growth initiatives and its defined benefit pension plans.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for second quarter 2006, Ferguson said, "We expect our normal seasonal improvement in sales volume and continued solid performance from our strong base of earnings, which consists of the fibers, CASPI and specialty plastics segments. We also anticipate continued challenging market conditions for the global PET business in our polymers segment and high and volatile raw material and energy costs. As a result, we expect second-quarter 2006 earnings per share to be similar to first-quarter 2006 earnings per share excluding certain items."
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on April 28 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to
www.eastman.com
,
Investors, Event Information, Audio Archives. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-981-5571, passcode number 9546843. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, April 28, to 12:00 midnight EDT, May 5, at 888-203-1112, passcode number 9546843.
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $7 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.
Forward Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for future raw material and energy costs; sales volume, selling prices, and earnings for the company and for certain segments and product lines; and uses of available cash. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-K filed for full-year 2005 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2006, available on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC filings section.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
April 27, 2006
 
For use in the Eastman Chemical Company Conference Call
at 8:00 AM (EDT), April 28, 2006.
 
TABLE 1 - STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
TABLE 2A - OTHER SALES INFORMATION
 
TABLE 2B - SALES REVENUE CHANGE
TABLE 2C - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME
 
TABLE 3 - OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS), ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER OPERATING INCOME
TABLE 4A - SALES BY REGION
TABLE 4B - PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN SALES VOLUME BY REGION
 
TABLE 5 - OPERATING EARNINGS, NET EARNINGS, AND EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS
TABLE 6 - STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
TABLE 7 - SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS


