FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20061212153228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
 
On December 7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company (the Company) elected to redeem all of the outstanding preferred stock purchase rights (the Rights) issuable pursuant to that certain Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement, dated as of December 13, 1993 and amended as of April 23, 2003 and December 4, 2003 (as amended, the Rights Agreement), between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust (AST), as successor rights agent. The record date for the payment of the Redemption Price (as defined in the Rights Agreement) is the Close of business (as defined in the Rights Agreement) on December 18, 2006, and the payment date for the payment of the Redemption Price is expected to be January 2, 2007. As a result of the foregoing redemption, the Rights Agreement has been terminated.
 
A copy of the Rights Agreement has previously been filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
A press release announcing the redemption of the Rights is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.1 Public release by the registrant on December 8, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., Dec. 8, 2006  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced that its board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.44 per share on the companys common stock, which will be payable to stockholders of record as of Dec. 18, 2006.
 
In addition, the board of directors voted to redeem all of the rights outstanding under the companys stockholder rights plan, effective as of Dec. 18, 2006. This action will terminate the companys stockholder rights plan.
 
We remain focused on enhancing long-term value for stockholders through the continued implementation of our recently announced long-term strategy, said Brian Ferguson, Eastman chairman and CEO. "Our decision to terminate the stockholder rights plan reflects the boards ongoing commitment to sound corporate governance.
 
Currently, one preferred stock purchase right is attached to each share of Eastman's common stock. In order to redeem these rights, the company will pay the redemption price of one cent per right in cash to stockholders of record as of the close of business on Dec.18, 2006. Stockholders are not required to take any action to receive the redemption payment.
 
Eastman expects to mail both the cash dividend and the redemption payments to record holders on Jan. 2, 2007.
 
In evaluating the rights plan, the board considered a wide variety of factors bearing on the company and its stockholders including, among other factors, the company's current stockholder base, stockholder views about rights plans and the company's other available protections against abusive takeover practices. The board has reserved the right in its sole discretion to take any actions in the future that it determines in the exercise of its fiduciary duties to be necessary or advisable, which could include the adoption of a new stockholder rights plan.
 
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers, and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is the worlds largest producer of PET polymers for packaging; and is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $7 billion and approximately 12,000 employees. For more information about Eastman, visit
www.eastman.com
.
 
Contacts:
Investors: Greg Riddle
212-835-1620 /
griddle@eastman.com
 
Media: Nancy Ledford
423-229-5264 /
nledford@eastman.com


