FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20061010084736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
Item 5.02(d) -- Election of Directors
The Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company on October 4, 2006 elected Lewis M. Kling as a director. Mr. Kling will serve in the class of directors for which the term in office expires at the company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2009, and will serve as a member of the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the Finance Committee, the Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, of the Board.
Item 5.03(a) -- Amendment to Bylaws
 
The Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company on October 4, 2006 amended the company's Bylaws so that directors are elected by a majority vote of stockholders. Before the amendment, the company's directors were elected by a plurality of the votes cast by stockholders. Under the new director election provision, any nominee who does not receive more than 50 percent of the votes cast would not be elected, and any incumbent director who does not receive majority support for reelection and whose successor has not been elected by stockholders would offer to resign from the Board. Votes cast include votes to withhold authority and exclude abstentions. The Board of Directors would act on the tendered resignation of an incumbent director who was not reelected and publicly disclose its decision within 90 days from the date of certification of the election results.
 
The text of the majority election Bylaw amendment is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the company's Bylaws are posted on the company's Internet website (
www.eastman.com
) in the "Investors -- Corporate Governance -- Bylaws" section.
 
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
 
3(ii) Text of Amendment to Bylaws
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3(ii)
 
 
Section 2.8.  Voting.
 
Unless otherwise provided in a resolution or resolutions providing for any class or series of Preferred Stock pursuant to Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation or by the Delaware General Corporation Law, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share held of record by such stockholder who is entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.  Each stockholder voting by proxy shall grant such authority in writing, by electronic or telephonic transmission or communication, or by any such other means permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law.  All questions, including elections for the Board of Directors, shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast, except as otherwise required by the Delaware General Corporation Law or as provided for in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. Abstentions shall not be considered to be votes cast. For purposes of this Bylaw, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" a director's election exceeds 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election or, in the case where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, cast with respect to election of directors generally. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority in each case and exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election, or, in the case where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, abstentions with respect to election of directors generally.
 
If a nominee for director who is an incumbent director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale for the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the class in which he or she is serving is nominated and re-elected and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation and removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Bylaw, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law and the Certificate of Incorporation and these Bylaws of the Company.


