FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20080711141115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b) and (c)  Departure and Appointment of Certain Officers
On July 8, 2008, the registrant announced the retirement of two executive officers, including that of Richard A. Lorraine as principal financial officer effective September 1, 2008, and several resulting executive officer appointments, including that of Curtis E. Espeland, currently principal accounting officer, as principal financial officer succeeding Mr. Lorraine and of Scott V. King as principal accounting officer succeeding Mr. Espeland.
The full text of the registrants release announcing these and the other executive retirements and appointments, including biographical information, previous positions with the registrant, and other business experience, is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
99.01 Public announcement by the registrant on July 8, 2008 of executive retirements and appointments
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 8, 2008  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced the retirement of two executives and several resulting senior management appointments that demonstrate the companys depth of management expertise.  These new appointees will play key roles as the company executes its strategy that is expected to result in a doubling of its earnings per share over the next five years.
Richard A. Lorraine, 62, announced he will step down as senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective Sept.1, 2008.  Lorraine will remain with the company until the end of the year performing in various roles and special projects.
During his tenure with the company, Eastman has benefitted enormously from Richs leadership, broad business experience and his strong disciplined approach to finance, said Brian Ferguson, chairman and chief executive officer.  He was instrumental in the process of making difficult decisions and implementing many of the strategic actions we have taken over the last five years.  His many contributions will have a lasting impact on the company.
Gregory O. Nelson, 56, also announced his retirement as executive vice president and polymers business group head, effective Aug. 1, 2008.
During the years I have known Greg, I have always admired the integrity he has consistently demonstrated, and for which he is widely known and respected, said Ferguson.  As a member of our senior leadership team, he most recently has led the polymers business group in a significant transformation focused on improving business results. He will be missed both personally and professionally.
The appointments were announcing as a result of these retirements demonstrate the depth and breadth of our leadership.  Each of the people being appointed has the skills and experience to assume very important assignments that are essential to us delivering on our plans for growth.
Eastman announced the following appointments, effective Aug. 1, 2008, unless otherwise noted:
 
 
James P. Rogers continues as president, Eastman Chemical Company, and chemicals and fibers business group head; Theresa K. Lee will continue as senior vice president, chief legal officer, and corporate secretary.
This senior management team, consisting of both existing and new members, will ensure continuity of Eastmans strong leadership, said Ferguson.  I am confident that as a team, these highly skilled and talented individuals will maintain the outstanding performance of the company and continue the execution of our growth strategies.
 
1
 
Biographical and Related Information
 Since joining Eastman in 1996, Espeland has held multiple corporate and business finance positions of increasing responsibility.  In addition to being the Chief Accounting Officer since 2002, he has led the financial activities of various business segments and geographical regions within the company.  Most recently, Espeland was responsible for the financial strategies and transactions associated with the transformation of the polymers business group and the growth initiatives of the industrial gasification business.  He also has served as the director of internal audit, director of planning and forecasting, and director of finance, Asia Pacific, based in Singapore.  Before joining Eastman in 1996, Espeland was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Anderson LLP in the U.S., Australia and Europe.
Curtis E. Espeland
Since joining Eastman in 2006, Costa has led the companys corporate strategy work.  He has been instrumental in developing business strategies, including the companys plans for growth through industrial gasification.  Prior to joining Eastman, he was a senior partner within Monitor Groups integrated North American and global client service networks where he gained extensive experience as a consultant to senior executives across a broad range of industries, including the commodity and specialty chemicals sectors.  In his new role, Costa will have responsibility for leading the execution of Eastmans growth strategies in its performance polymers and specialty plastics business segments.  He will also continue to lead the companys marketing efforts which he has done since 2006.
Mark J. Costa
 Since joining Eastman in 1980, Lindsay has had vast experience in both business and manufacturing, and for more than a decade he held various positions of responsibility in the construction, start up, operation and maintenance of Eastmans Kingsport gasification facility.  Under his leadership, the facility increased its capacity, improved productivity and yields on use of coal, and achieved record reliability.  In his new role, Lindsays many years of experience and deep knowledge of the gasification process will help guide the companys efforts as it moves further into the implementation phase of its industrial gasification strategy.
Ronald C. Lindsay
Sneed joined Eastman in 1979 as a chemical engineer.  Since that time,
Norris P. Sneed 
Sneed has held leadership positions in various organizations, including manufacturing and new business development. His varied assignments have been at several company locations, both within the U.S. and internationally.  Sneed served as Vice President of Organizational Effectiveness in the Human Resources, Communication and Public Affairs organization prior to his appointment to his current position in 2003.
 Dr. Nelson came to Eastman in 1988 in the companys research and development organization.  He has held various positions in technology, including technology manager for the flexible plastics business; vice president, polymers technology; and, since 2007, vice president, corporate technology.  While head of the polymers technology organization, Nelson was instrumental in the development of Eastman IntegRex technology.
Gregory W. Nelson
King joined Eastman in 1999 as manager, corporate consolidations and external reporting.  Since that time, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization.  Prior to joining Eastman, Scott was an audit and business advisory manager and certified public accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in St. Louis, Missouri and Chicago, Illinois.
Scott V. King 
 
For complete management biographical information, including educational background, visit .
www.eastman.com
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers; and produces PET polymers for packaging. As a Responsible Care company, Eastman is committed to achieving the highest standards of health, safety, environmental and security performance. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2007 sales of $6.8 billion and approximately 10,500 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit www.eastman.com.
 
2
 
 
 


