FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20081209151349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 4, 2008, the board of directors (the Board) of Eastman Chemical Company (the Company) took the following actions:
 
 
 
 
 
J. Brian Ferguson, the Companys current Chief Executive Officer, will remain in that position until the effectiveness of Mr. Rogers election. Thereafter, Mr. Ferguson will continue to be a director, and to be employed as an executive officer of the Company, in the role of Executive Chairman of the Board.
 
In connection with the Boards election of Mr. Rogers as President and Chief Executive Officer and of Mr. Ferguson as Executive Chairman of the Board, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board took certain actions related to Mr. Rogers and Mr. Fergusons compensation. As Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rogers will be entitled to an annual salary of $975,000 and will participate in the Companys annual variable cash compensation plan at a target level of 100% of his base salary.  Mr. Rogers also was awarded 50,000 restricted stock units on December 4, 2008, with the award scheduled to vest and payout in unrestricted shares of Company common stock (i) as to one-half of the restricted stock units on December 31, 2012 and (ii) as to the remaining restricted stock units on December 31, 2012 based upon Mr. Rogers performance of certain specified goals and expectations.  It is expected that Mr. Rogers will also receive long-term stock-based incentive compensation and will be entitled to perquisites and other benefits consistent with such compensation and benefits provided by the Company to its Chief Executive Officer in previous years. Mr. Fergusons compensation as Executive Chairman of the Board will be an annual salary of $750,000.
 
The full text of the Companys release announcing these actions, including Mr. Rogers biographical information, previous positions with the Company, and other business experience, is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01
Public announcement by the registrant on December 8, 2008 of resignation of J. Brian Ferguson as CEO and election of Ferguson by Board to position of Executive Chairman and of election by Board of James P. Rogers as CEO and President and appointment by Board of Rogers as a member of the Board
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., December 8, 2008  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced that the board of directors has elected James P. Rogers, 57, president and chief executive officer, effective following the annual meeting of stockholders on May 7, 2009.  The board also appointed Rogers as a director, effective immediately to serve in the class for which the term in office expires at the annual meeting of stockholders in May 2011.  Rogers is currently president of the company and chemicals and fibers business group head.
J. Brian Ferguson, 54, will continue to serve as chairman and CEO through the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, and then will serve as executive chairman of the board through 2010.  These actions come as part of the boards normal succession planning process.
I am very proud of the many accomplishments our company has made since I became chairman and CEO in 2002, Ferguson said.  We have restored the fundamental financial health of our company, broadened our business and commercial capabilities, and built a results-driven culture.  Weve also set a strategic path to sustain and grow Eastman well into the future, and I look forward to remaining a part of that as executive chairman."
This is the right time to pass the torch to Jim and our talented team of senior executives, Ferguson said.  The company is well positioned to endure the difficult economic situation because of previous actions weve taken.  Jim knows our company well and is a proven and effective leader.  His contributions to Eastman have been numerous and significant to our success and Im very confident he is well prepared to be the next CEO of Eastman Chemical Company.
I am honored to have been selected by the board of directors to lead Eastman as the next CEO, said Rogers.  I look forward to building on the success the company has achieved under Brians leadership.  I also look forward to continuing to work with Brian in his role as executive chairman and with the talented people at Eastman around the world as we serve our customers and our communities, and reward our stockholders.
Rogers has been in his current role since 2006.   Prior to that, he had been executive vice president of the company since 2003.  He joined Eastman in 1999 as senior vice president and chief financial officer, and was later appointed chief operations officer of Eastman Division.  Before joining Eastman, Rogers served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of GAF Materials Corporation.   He also previously served as executive vice president, Finance, of International Specialty Products, Inc.
Speaking on behalf of Eastmans board of directors, Stephen R. Demeritt, chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, said, Brian has provided great leadership to Eastman since he became CEO in 2002.  We look forward to his continuing contributions as executive chairman of the board of directors and to the strategic support he will provide to Jim and the senior leadership team.  We are confident that Jim and other senior leaders will continue to execute the companys growth strategy and deliver significant value to Eastman stockholders.
 
Eastman will host a 30-minute conference call with industry analysts on Dec. 9 at 8:30 a.m. ET for Jim Rogers and Brian Ferguson to discuss their new roles.  To listen to the live webcast of the conference call, go to . To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is (785) 830-7992, passcode number 1134096. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. ET, Dec. 9, to 12:00 midnight ET, Dec. 19, at (719) 457-0820, passcode number 1134096.
www.eastman.com/investors
Eastman manufactures and markets chemicals, fibers and plastics worldwide. It provides key differentiated coatings, adhesives and specialty plastics products; is a major supplier of cellulose acetate fibers; and produces PET polymers for packaging. As a Responsible Care company, Eastman is committed to achieving the highest standards of health, safety, environmental and security performance. Founded in 1920 and headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., Eastman is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2007 sales of $6.8 billion and approximately 10,500 employees. For more information about Eastman and its products, visit
www.eastman.com
.


