FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20091209163144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.06  Material Impairment
 
On December 3, 2009, Eastman Chemical Company decided to discontinue its Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project. The text of the companys release announcing this decision, including the facts and circumstances leading to the decision, is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference. As previously reported, at September 30, 2009 approximately $230 million of the companys assets were land, capitalized front-end engineering and design, methanol and ammonia assets, intangible assets, and goodwill related to the Beaumont, Texas gasification project. As a result of  the decision to discontinue the project, the company will in the fourth quarter 2009 recognize a pre-tax non-cash charge for the impairment of these assets estimated to be between $150 million-$180 million.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on December 9, 2009 of discontinuation of Beaumont, Texas, Industrial Gasification Project.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., Dec. 9, 2009  Eastman Chemical Company announced today that it has decided to discontinue its Beaumont, Texas, industrial gasification project.  This decision was made due to a number of factors, including high capital costs, the current and foreseen reduced spread between natural gas and oil and petroleum coke prices, and continued uncertainty regarding U.S. energy and environmental public policy.  As a result of this decision, the company will recognize a pre-tax non-cash asset impairment charge estimated to be between $150 million-$180 million in the fourth quarter 2009. 
Even though it is no longer advantageous for Eastman to pursue this project, we will continue to explore global industrial gasification opportunities as a long-term growth option for the company, said Jim Rogers, president and CEO.
Rogers added, Eastman is committed to being an outperforming chemical company.  I am confident we will deliver profitable growth through the combination of our solid core businesses and strong financial profile.
Eastmans chemicals, fibers and plastics are used as key ingredients in products that people use every day.  Approximately 10,000 Eastman employees around the world blend technical expertise and innovation to deliver practical solutions.  The company is committed to finding sustainable business opportunities within the diverse markets it serves.  A global company headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., USA, Eastman had 2008 sales of $6.7 billion.  For more information, visit .
www.eastman.com


