FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20090513120107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03(a) -- Amendments to Bylaws
As previously reported by Eastman Chemical Company (the Company) on its Form 8-K filed December 9, 2008, effective immediately after the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 7, 2009 the positions of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board were separated.
 
The Board of Directors of the Company on May 7, 2009 amended the Companys Bylaws by adding the office of Chief Executive Officer to Sections 1.1 (stock certificate signatures), 2.6(a) (presiding officer of stockholder meetings), and 7.3 (voting of stock owned by the Company).  These amendments provide the Chief Executive Officer the same powers and authority under the Bylaws of the Company as when the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were held by the same person.
 
The text of these Bylaw amendments is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and a complete copy of the Companys Bylaws as amended is posted on the Companys Internet website (www.eastman.com) in the Investors -- Corporate Governance -- Bylaws section and will be filed as an exhibit to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is filed pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
 
3(ii) Text of Amendments to Bylaws
 
 
2 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3

 
 
 
.  Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Vice Chairman or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation certifying the number of shares in the Corporation owned by such holder.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 1.1.  Certificates
 
 
.  (a) The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or such other officer of the Corporation designated by a majority of the directors that the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies on the Board of Directors (the Whole Board), will call meetings of the stockholders to order and will act as presiding officer thereof.  Unless otherwise determined prior to the meeting by a majority of the Whole Board, the presiding officer of the meeting of the stockholders will have the right and the authority to determine and maintain the rules, regulations and procedures for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, restricting entry to the meeting after it has commenced, maintaining order and the safety of those in attendance, opening and closing the polls for voting, dismissing business or proposals not properly submitted, limiting the time allowed for discussion of the business of the meeting, restricting the persons (other than stockholders of the Corporation or their duly appointed proxies) that may attend the meeting, and ascertaining whether any stockholder or proxy holder may be excluded from the meeting based upon any determination by the presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, that the stockholder or proxy holder is unduly disruptive or is likely to disrupt the meeting.  The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary, but in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a secretary.
Section 2.6.  Organization
and Procedure
 
 
 
.  Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, any Vice President or such officers or employees or agents as the Board of Directors or any of such designated officers may direct.  Any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present.  The Board of Directors may from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 7.3.  Voting of Stock Owned by the Corporation
 
4
 


