FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20100729170617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 29, 2010, the registrant publicly released its financial results for second quarter 2010.  The full text of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.  This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
99.01 Public release by the registrant on July 29, 2010 of second quarter 2010 financial results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 29, 2010  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) today announced earnings of $2.02 per diluted share for second quarter 2010 versus $0.89 per diluted share for second quarter 2009. Excluding $3 million of restructuring charges in second quarter 2010 and a $3 million reduction of a previous restructuring charge in second quarter 2009, earnings were $2.05 per diluted share in second quarter 2010 and $0.86 in second quarter 2009. For reconciliations to reported company and segment earnings, see Tables 3 and 4 in the accompanying second-quarter 2010 financial tables.
"Strong results from our solid core businesses led Eastman to report the best quarterly earnings per share in the companys history, said Jim Rogers, president and CEO. "The record earnings are driven by the combination of a continued rebound in demand across the company and in all regions, growth initiatives that are delivering results, and the positive impact of strategic actions that have improved our portfolio of businesses and our cost structure."
 
*
For reconciliations to reported company and segment earnings, see Tables 3 and 4 in the accompanying second-quarter 2010 financial tables.
 
Sales revenue for second quarter 2010 was $1.7 billion, a 38 percent increase compared with second quarter 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices. The higher sales volume was attributed primarily to improved customer demand due to the rebound in the global economy and the positive impact of growth initiatives, and the increase in selling prices was in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
 
Operating earnings in second quarter 2010 increased to $260 million compared with operating earnings of $128 million in second quarter 2009, excluding restructuring charges, net, in both periods. Operating earnings increased due to higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs. In addition, higher selling prices more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. Second-quarter 2010 operating earnings were negatively impacted by costs recognized during the quarter related to the previously announced outage at the companys Longview, Texas, manufacturing facility, which were mostly offset by a partial settlement of a related insurance claim.
Segment Results 2Q 2010 versus 2Q 2009
 Sales revenue increased by 37 percent due to higher sales volume, higher selling prices, and a favorable shift in product mix. The higher sales volume was attributed to improved customer demand due to the rebound in the global economy and the positive impact of growth initiatives. The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for commodity solvents product lines. The favorable shift in product mix was due to higher sales volume for specialty polymers and specialty coalescents product lines attributed to the demand recovery in coatings markets, particularly in the Asia Pacific and European regions. Operating earnings in second quarter 2010 increased to a qua rterly record of $94 million compared with operating earnings of $48 million excluding restructuring charges, net, in second quarter 2009. The increase was due to higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs and the favorable shift in product mix.
Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks
 Sales revenue increased by 4 percent due to higher sales volume, particularly for acetate yarn product lines. Operating earnings in second quarter 2010 increased to a quarterly record of $83 million compared with operating earnings of $74 million in second quarter 2009. The increase was due primarily to increased sales volume and higher capacity utilization for acetate yarn product lines.   
Fibers
 Sales revenue increased by 72 percent due primarily to higher sales volume and higher selling prices. The higher sales volume, particularly for olefin derivative product lines, was attributed to improved customer demand due to the rebound in the global economy and the addition during the quarter of new plasticizer product lines from the acquisition of Genovique Specialties Corporation. The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Operating earnings excluding restructuring charges in second quarter 2010 increased to $72 million compared with $1 million in second quarter 2009. The increase was due to higher selling prices which more than offset higher raw material and energy cost s, and higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs. Second-quarter 2009 operating earnings included approximately $15 million of costs related to the reconfiguration of the Longview, Texas, manufacturing facility.
Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
  Sales revenue increased by 20 percent due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume. The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Sales volume increased due to improved operations of the IntegRex-based PET manufacturing facility. Operating earnings in second quarter 2010 were similar to second quarter 2009 as the favorable impact of improved IntegRex operations was offset by the impact of continued difficult market conditions for PET in North America which limited the ability to offset higher raw material and energy costs with higher selling prices.  
Performance Polymers
Sales revenue increased by 44 percent due primarily to higher sales volume and a favorable shift in product mix. The increase in sales volume was attributed to improved customer demand due to the rebound in the global economy and the positive impact of growth initiatives for core copolyesters and Eastman Tritan copolyester product lines. The favorable shift in product mix was due to higher sales volume for cellulosic plastics sold into the LCD market. Operating earnings increased to $21 million in second quarter 2010 compared with $7 million excluding restructuring charges, net, in second quarter 2009. The increase was due to higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs.
Specialty Plastics 
Cash Flow
Eastman generated $206 million of cash from operating activities during second quarter 2010 due primarily to strong net earnings. Excluding the $200 million impact on cash from operating activities in first quarter 2010 of the adoption of amended accounting guidance applied to the companys accounts receivable securitization program, the company expects to generate free cash flow of approximately $300 million for full year 2010. Free cash flow is defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends. See Table 5A for reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for third quarter and full year 2010, Rogers said: "Our strong first half results give us positive momentum heading into the second half of the year. We expect to continue to benefit from the combination of the economic recovery and growth initiatives we are implementing. We also expect our volumes will reflect typical seasonal declines in the second half of the year and that raw material and energy costs will be less volatile. Taking these factors into consideration, we expect third quarter 2010 earnings per share to be between $1.65 and $1.75 per share. In addition, we expect full-year 2010 earnings per share to be between $6.20 and $6.40." Any charges related to restructuring actions are excluded from earnings per share projections.
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on July 30 at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call and view the accompanying slides, go to , Events & Presentations. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is (913) 312-6664, passcode number 3114374. A web replay and the accompanying slides will be available at , Events & Presentations. A telephone replay will be available continuously from 11:00 a.m. EDT, July 30, to 11:00 a.m. EDT, August 9, at (719) 457-0820, passcode number 3114374.
www.investors.eastman.com
www.investors.eastman.com
 
Eastmans chemicals, fibers and plastics are used as key ingredients in products that people use every day. Approximately 10,000 Eastman employees around the world blend technical expertise and innovation to deliver practical solutions. The company is committed to finding sustainable business opportunities within the diverse markets it serves. A global company headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., USA, Eastman had 2009 sales of $5 billion. For more information, visit .
www.eastman.com
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements concerning current expectations for global and regional economic recovery and demand for the companys products, implementation and impact of previously announced strategic actions and growth initiatives, sales volumes, raw material and energy costs, and earnings per share and cash flow during and for third quarter and full year 2010. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or m ore of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Form 10-Q filed for first quarter 2010 available, and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2010 and to be available, on the Eastman web site at in the Investors, SEC filings section.
Forward-Looking Statements:
www.eastman.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
July 29, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


