FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20110224104703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02(d) -- Election of Director
 
The Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company on February 17, 2011 elected Brett D. Begemann as a director. Mr. Begemann serves in the class of directors for which the current term in office expires at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013, and serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of the Board of Directors.  The text of the Companys release announcing the election of Mr. Begemann as a director is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibit
 
The following exhibit is filed pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
99.01
Text of Public Release by the Company on February 24, 2011 announcing election of Brett D. Begemann as a director.
 
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., Feb. 24, 2011  The board of directors of Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) has elected Brett D. Begemann as a director.  Begemann, 50, is executive vice president and chief commercial officer, Monsanto Company, a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Bretts wide-ranging experience at Monsanto will be a valuable addition to Eastmans Board of Directors, said Jim Rogers, chairman and CEO.  I am sure that our company will benefit greatly from his global biotechnology and chemicals business operations insight and his extensive experience in leading international and emerging markets growth and strategy.
 Begemann graduated from the University of Missouri in 1983 with a bachelors degree in agricultural economics. Upon graduation he joined Monsanto in the companys sales and marketing organization. Since that time Begemann has had various senior management assignments, each with increasing levels of responsibility.  He has served in several key international positions, including Vice President, Asia Pacific, Singapore, and Executive Vice President, International. Begemann currently serves as Chief Commercial Officer, with responsibility for Monsantos global commercial operations, including the companys two major business sectors.
Eastmans chemicals, fibers and plastics are used as key ingredients in products that people use every day.  Approximately 10,000 Eastman employees around the world blend technical expertise and innovation to deliver practical solutions.  The company is committed to finding sustainable business opportunities within the diverse markets and geographies it serves. A global company headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., USA, Eastman had 2010 sales of $5.8 billion.  For more information, visit .
www.eastman.com
Contacts:
Media:  Tracy Broadwater
423-224-0498 /
tkbroadwater@eastman.com
Investors: Greg Riddle
212-835-1620 /
griddle@eastman.com
 


