FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20110110091015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d) -- Election of Director
 
The Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company on January 4, 2011 elected Humberto P. Alfonso as a director. Mr. Alfonso serves in the class of directors for which the current term in office expires at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2011, and serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of the Board of Directors. The text of the Companys release announcing the election of Mr. Alfonso as a director is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibit
 
The following exhibit is filed pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
 
99.01
Text of Public Release by the Company on January 10, 2011 announcing election of Humberto P. Alfonso as a director.
 
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

KINGSPORT, Tenn., Jan. 10, 2011  The board of directors of Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) has elected Humberto Alfonso as a director.  Alfonso, 53, is senior vice president and chief financial officer, The Hershey Company, the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America and a global leader in chocolate and sugar confectionery.
Berts wide-ranging financial experience at a number of well respected international companies makes him a valuable addition to Eastmans board, said Jim Rogers, chairman and CEO.  I look forward to working with Bert, and I have no doubt that Eastman will benefit from his leadership and extensive financial knowledge.
Alfonso has more than 30 years of experience in auditing, financial management and planning, and international finance.  In 1983 he joined Warner Lambert, which was later acquired by Pfizer Inc., where he held a number of senior financial positions, including vice president and international treasurer, and vice president, finance and chief financial officer, of the Adams Division of Pfizer.  Following that, he joined Cadbury Schweppes where he became executive vice president and chief financial officer, Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages.  He then joined The Hershey Company in 2006 where he is currently senior vice president and chief financial officer. 
A certified public accountant, Alfonso holds both a bachelor's degree in accounting and a master's degree in marketing from Rutgers University.
Eastmans chemicals, fibers and plastics are used as key ingredients in products that people use every day. Approximately 10,000 Eastman employees around the world blend technical expertise and innovation to deliver practical solutions. The company is committed to finding sustainable business opportunities within the diverse markets it serves. A global company headquartered in Kingsport, Tenn., USA, Eastman had 2009 sales of $5 billion. For more information, visit .
www.eastman.com
Contacts:
Media:  Tracy Broadwater
423-224-0498 /
tkbroadwater@eastman.com
                                                                       
Investors: Greg Riddle
212-835-1620 /
griddle@eastman.com


