FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20110509152138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Items 5.03(a) and 5.07 -- Amendments to Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
The 2011 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of Eastman Chemical Company was held on May 5, 2011. There were 71,046,926 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to be voted, and 61,172,886 of those shares (86.10% of the outstanding shares) were represented in person or by proxy, at the Annual Meeting.
 
Six items of business were acted upon by stockholders at the Annual Meeting:
 
The results of the voting on the election of directors were as follows:
Accordingly, each of the four nominees received a majority of votes cast in favor of that director's election and was elected.
 2
 
 
The results of the voting on the advisory say-on-pay vote were as follows:
Accordingly, a majority of votes cast in the advisory say-on-pay vote were for approval of the executive compensation as disclosed in the Annual Meeting proxy statement.
 
The results of the voting on the advisory vote on the frequency of future say-on-pay votes were as follows:
Accordingly, a plurality (the largest number) of votes cast in the advisory vote on the frequency of future say-on-pay votes were for such vote to occur every year, supporting the Boards recommendation that an advisory say-on-pay stockholder vote be included in the Companys proxy statement for, and voted on by stockholders at, each annual meeting of stockholders.  No later than September 26, 2011, the Company will disclose by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K (pursuant to Item 5.07(d) of Form 8-K) the decision of the Board of Directors in light of this advisory vote as to how frequently the Company will include a say-on-pay advisory stockholder vote in its future proxy materials.
The results of the voting on the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent auditors for the Company for 2011 were as follows:
Accordingly, a majority of votes cast on the ratification of auditors were in favor of the proposal and the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent auditors was ratified.
3 
 
 
The results of the voting on the proposed amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company to declassify the Board of Directors were as follows:
Accordingly, a majority of outstanding shares were voted for the proposal and the amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board was adopted. The amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation, and related amendments to the Companys Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter, became effective on May 5, 2011 upon filing of a certificate of amendment with the Secretary of State of Delaware. The proposal for and text of the amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation and the Bylaws were disclosed in the definitive proxy statement filed by the Company on March 24, 2011. Complete copies of the Certificate of Incorporation and of the Bylaws as amended will be filed as exhibits to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.
 
The results of the voting on the stockholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors take steps necessary to implement a simple majority vote requirement for all stockholder actions were as follows:
Accordingly, a majority of votes cast on this stockholder proposal were in favor of the proposal and the proposal was adopted. The adoption of this stockholder proposal did not implement simple majority voting; some such changes are not allowed by law, and others would require that the Board and stockholders holding a majority of outstanding shares approve an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation.
 
  4
 
 
 
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed pursuant to Item 9.01(d):
 
3(i) and (ii) -- Text of May 5, 2011 Amendments to Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws (incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Companys 2011 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement)
 
 
 5
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Eastman Chemical Company
 
By:  /s/ Scott V. King
Scott V. King,
Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  May 9, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 


