FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20120127120851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2012, Eastman Chemical Company (the "Company") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Solutia Inc. ("Solutia") and Eagle Merger Sub Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub") providing for the merger of Merger Sub with and into Solutia, with Solutia surviving the merger as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of common stock of Solutia will be canceled and converted automatically into the right to receive (subject to certain limitations set forth in the Merger Agreement) (i) $22.00 in cash and (ii) 0.12 shares of the Company's common stock.
The material terms of the Merger Agreement, including the terms and conditions to the Merger, will be described in a subsequent filing on Form 8-K.
 
In connection with its entry into the Merger Agreement, the Company has entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Barclays Bank PLC which contains commitments for a $3.5 billion senior unsecured bridge term loan facility and sets out the principal terms of a senior unsecured term loan facility for up to $1.25 billion, with any commitments in respect of the term loan facility reducing on a dollar-for-dollar basis commitments under the bridge term loan facility. A combination of cash on hand and borrowings will be used to pay the cash consideration payable in the Merger, and to refinance a portion of outstanding debt. Final terms of the debt financing will be set forth in definitive agreements relating to such indebtedness.
On January 27, 2012, the Company and Solutia issued a joint press release announcing the Merger. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The following additional written communications related to the Merger are also being filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eastman will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to the Merger. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the Merger. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website,
 
www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Merger Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the Merger. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) and Solutia Inc. (NYSE:SOA) today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement, under which Eastman will acquire Solutia, a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals. Under the terms of the agreement, Solutia stockholders will receive $22.00 in cash and 0.12 shares of Eastman common stock for each share of Solutia common stock. Based on yesterday's closing prices, Solutia shareholders will receive cash and stock valued at $27.65 per Solutia common share, representing a premium of 42 percent and a total transaction value of approximately $4.7 billion, including the assumption of Solutia's debt.
KINGSPORT, Tenn. and ST. LOUIS, Mo.
"The acquisition of Solutia is a significant step in our growth strategy and one that I am confident will strengthen Eastman as a top-tier specialty chemical company with strong, stable margins," said Jim Rogers, chairman and chief executive officer of Eastman. "The addition of Solutia will broaden our geographic reach into emerging geographies, particularly Asia Pacific, establish a powerful combined platform with extensive organic growth opportunities, and expand our portfolio of sustainable products, all of which are consistent with our growth strategy.
"This transaction is also expected to deliver immediate value to our stockholders in the form of accretion and strong cash generation, as well as create potential upside through the combination of two leading global chemical companies," said Rogers.
"This complimentary transaction will accelerate the growth of our businesses around the world. The shared commitment to innovation, quality and technical service will allow us to better serve our customers and creates opportunity for our employees around the globe," said Jeffry N. Quinn, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Solutia. "This transaction provides Solutia's shareholders with immediate value and an attractive premium, as well as the opportunity to benefit from the future prospects of a leading global chemicals producer with the financial strength, a diversified mix of premium products, and the geographic footprint to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities."
"I commend the excellent management team and employees of Solutia. Over the past several years, Solutia has transformed itself into a financially strong, innovative performance materials and specialty chemicals company, with enviable market leading positions in virtually every market it serves," added Rogers. "That, in addition to both companies' success integrating prior acquisitions, gives me confidence we will achieve a smooth transition. We look forward to welcoming Solutia employees to Eastman."
Solutia a strong, strategic fit
Eastman and Solutia share several key fundamentals, such as complementary technologies and business capabilities, a polymer science backbone, similar operating philosophies and a high performance culture. In addition, the overlap of key end-markets is expected to provide opportunities for growth.
This acquisition is also a significant step in Eastman's strategy to extend its global presence in emerging markets. In particular, it should significantly accelerate Eastman's growth efforts and offer excellent growth opportunities in Asia Pacific. By leveraging infrastructure in the region, Eastman expects to have a compound annual growth rate in Asia Pacific approaching 10 percent for the next several years.
Transaction expected to deliver strong earnings growth and significant cost and revenue synergies
Eastman expects the transaction to be immediately accretive to earnings, excluding acquisition-related costs and charges. After giving effect to the acquisition of Solutia, including expected cost synergies, Eastman expects 2012 EPS to be approximately $5 excluding acquisition-related costs and charges. Eastman is also increasing its 2013 EPS expectation to greater than $6.
Eastman has identified annual cost synergies of approximately $100 million that are expected to be achieved by year-end 2013. Key areas of value creation include the reduction of corporate costs, raw material synergies, and improved manufacturing and supply chain processes.
Further, Eastman expects to realize significant tax benefits from Solutia's historical net operating losses and other tax attributes that are expected to contribute to free cash flow (defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends) of approximately $1.0 billion through 2013.
Eastman also recognizes the potential for meaningful revenue synergies by leveraging both companies' technology and business capabilities and end-market overlaps, particularly in automotive and architectural.
Attractive capital structure, benefiting from low interest rate environment
Eastman intends to finance the cash portion of the purchase price through a combination of cash on hand and debt. Debt financing has been committed by Citi and Barclays Capital which are acting as financial advisors to Eastman on the transaction, and Jones Day is acting as legal counsel. Eastman's management and Board of Directors remain committed to maintaining an investment grade credit rating and to its current annual dividend rate of $1.04 per share.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Moelis & Company LLC acted as financial advisors to Solutia on this transaction. Perella Weinberg Partners LP acted as financial advisors to Solutia's Board of Directors. In addition, the Valence Group, LLC conducted an independent evaluation of Solutia's long range plan for Solutia's Board of Directors. Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted as legal counsel to Solutia.
The transaction, which was approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, remains subject to approval by Solutia's shareholders and receipt of required regulatory approvals as well as other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in mid-2012.
Conference call and webcast
Eastman will host a conference call with industry analysts on January 27 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. To listen to the live webcast of the conference call and view the accompanying slides, go to www.investors.eastman.com, Presentations. To listen via telephone, the dial-in number is (913) 312-1279, passcode number 8645015. A web and telephone replay will be available continuously from 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, January 30, to 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, February 9, 2012, at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820, passcode 8645015.
About Solutia
Notes to Editor: SOLUTIA and the Radiance Logo and all other trademarks listed below are trademarks of Solutia Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Solutia is a market-leading performance materials and specialty chemicals company. The company focuses on providing solutions for a better life through a range of products, including: Saflex polyvinyl butyral interlayers for glass lamination and for photovoltaic module encapsulation and VISTASOLAR ethylene vinyl acetate films for photovoltaic module encapsulation; LLumar, Vista, EnerLogic, FormulaOne, Gila, V-KOOL, Huper Optik, IQue, Sun-X and Nanolux aftermarket performance films for automotive and architectural applications; XIR and Heat Mirror performance films that are incorporated into aftermarket window films, laminated glass products and suspended insulated glass units for use in automotive and architectural applications. Flexvue advanced film component solutions for solar and
electronic technologies; and technical specialties products including Crystex insoluble sulfur, Santoflex PPD antidegradants, Therminol heat transfer fluids and Skydrol aviation hydraulic fluids. Solutia's businesses are world leaders in each of their market segments. With its headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri, USA, the company operates globally with approximately 3,400 employees in more than 50 worldwide locations. More information is available at www.Solutia.com.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any
reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Merger Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
About Eastman
Eastman's chemicals, fibers and plastics are used as key ingredients in products that people use every day. Approximately 10,000 Eastman employees around the world blend technical expertise and innovation to deliver practical solutions. The company is committed to finding sustainable business opportunities within the diverse markets and geographies it serves. A global company headquartered in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA, Eastman had 2011 sales of $7.2 billion. For more information, visit www.eastman.com.
Eastman Contacts:
 Tracy Broadwater
Media:
423-224-0498 / tkbroadwater@eastman.com
 Greg Riddle
Investors:
212-835-1620 / griddle@eastman.com
Solutia Contacts:
 Melissa H. Zona
Media:
314-674-5555 / mailto:mvhamm@solutia.com
 Susannah Livingston
Investors:
314-674-8914 / sslivi@solutia.com


Exhibit 99.3
Note: Translated versions will be made available shortly.
Restricted  For Internal Use Only
Happy 2012! I hope this year has gotten off to a good start for each of you. It has gotten off to an exciting start for Eastman. Last night we reported that, despite a softer than expected fourth quarter, our earnings per share were among our best for a fourth quarter, and our full-year 2011 EPS was the best in our company's history. It's results like this that have made it possible for us to execute our growth strategy and make big announcements like the one we just made. In case you missed it, moments ago we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Solutia, a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.
The acquisition of Solutia is a significant step in our growth strategy and one that I am confident will strengthen Eastman as a top-tier specialty chemical company. I have this confidence because I see Solutia as a good, strategic fit for Eastman. It will certainly increase our size and market presence across the globe, but more importantly, I believe this acquisition offers us tremendous growth opportunities. As you learn more, I think you'll see that, too.
First off, Solutia operates three strong businesses and has market leading positions in many of the end-markets that it serves. Together we share several key fundamentals, such as complementary technologies and business capabilities, and a strong polymer science backbone. Eastman and Solutia aren't just a strategic fit in terms of our business and products, but also in what we stand for. We share similar operating philosophies and a high performance culture that is committed to the highest levels of quality, customer service and safety.
Solutia also shares our focus on emerging markets, and with this acquisition, we see great potential for growth, specifically Asia Pacific. Solutia has an extensive footprint in the region, with manufacturing facilities strategically located near our own assets. By leveraging our combined existing and planned additional infrastructure in the region, we believe we will be able to strengthen our presence and accelerate our growth, particularly in China.
Another benefit of this acquisition will be that with Solutia, Eastman will have a powerful platform that I expect will provide additional opportunities for external growth, and will create extensive new organic growth opportunities in addition to the ones that are already underway, like acetylated wood, microfibers and Cerfis.
Once completed, this will be Eastman's single largest acquisition and I am confident that we are ready to meet this exciting new challenge. I also want to assure you that we are financing this acquisition in a way that is designed to maximize our return on capital and maintain our strong financial profile. We remain committed to maintaining both an investment grade credit rating and our current annual dividend.
Now that we have signed an agreement, we're working hard to ensure a successful closing and we expect that to happen mid-year. We'll keep you posted on our progress and our plans for integration. In the meantime, please be sure to read the press release, and if you have a few moments, watch our video posted on MyEastman that explains more about this transaction and why we believe it is good for Eastman.
I again want to thank all of you for delivering another great year, and for making today's announcement possible. This is a big step for us, but one we are ready for. Thanks for getting us to this point. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and there are a lot of decisions yet to be made. It's important that we stay focused on business as usual, but today, I hope you agree that this is an exciting time to be part of Eastman.
Jim Rogers
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
More information
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating
performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of
stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.

Exhibit 99.4
[Eastman logo]
[Safe Harbor language to scroll on screen]
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed
with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
[Jim Rogers on Camera]
Hi, I'm Jim Rogers. By now, you've probably heard about our announcement to acquire Solutia. If you have a few moments, there's a video you can watch that tells you more about the deal.
But before you do that, I just wanted to personally take a minute to tell you how excited I am about this transaction and what it means for Eastman. This is a great fit for us and all of the hard work you've been doing is what put us in a position to be able to do this deal now.
We have a lot of work ahead of us, and there are a lot of decisions yet to be made. But today, I just hope you agree that this is an exciting time to be part of Eastman. This acquisition marks a significant milestone in our Commitment to Growth, and should create lots of opportunities for us to continue growing in the future. I have every confidence that with Solutia's team of talented employees and their portfolio of strong products and businesses, Eastman will become an even stronger, outperforming chemical company.
So thanks for what you've done to get us hereand thanks in advance, for the work you are about to do to take us even further.
Thank you and have a great day!

Exhibit 99.5
[Eastman logo]
[Forward-looking statements and legends to appear on screen graphically]
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
(Jim On Camera)
Hi, I'm Jim Rogers, Chairman and CEO of Eastman Chemical Company. If you know Eastman, you know that for the past several years we have been aggressively pursuing a strategy to achieve sustainable growth.
Acquisitions have been a key part of our strategy, including the five acquisitions we have made over the past two years. Today, I'm excited to announce the next step in our strategy: Eastman has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia, a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.
The transaction brings together two companies that share the same values and commitment to innovation, and strengthen Eastman as a top-tier specialty chemical company.
We expect to close the transaction by mid-2012. Under the terms of the agreement, Solutia shareholders will receive $22 in cash and 0.12 shares of Eastman common stock for each share of Solutia common stock for a total transaction value of approximately $4.7 billion, including the assumption of Solutia's debt.
We expect the transaction to be immediately accretive to earnings, excluding acquisition-related costs and charges, resulting in an acceleration of our expected earnings growth. With the Solutia acquisition, we now expect our 2012 earnings per share will be approximately $5, and we are increasing our 2013 EPS expectations to be greater than $6.
Eastman expects to capture synergies of approximately $100 million over the next eighteen months through the reduction of corporate costs, raw material synergies, improved manufacturing and supply chain processes, as well as through significant tax synergies.
We also recognize the potential for meaningful revenue synergies by leveraging Eastman and Solutia's complementary technology and business capabilities and overlaps in key end-markets.
So, now that you have the details of the transaction and our projected earnings growth, let's take a closer look at why we believe this acquisition is a strong, strategic fit for Eastman.
First of all, we believe Solutia is a great company with strong businesses and market leading positions in many of the key markets that it serves.
Like Eastman, Solutia serves a number of diverse end-markets. They have a significant presence in many of the same markets we serve, such as automotive and architectural. Not only will the addition of Solutia further balance our end-market exposure, we believe the overlap will provide deeper insights into these markets, which in turn will lead to greater opportunities for growth.
And importantly, with number one positions in virtually every key market it serves, Solutia is expected to expand Eastman's portfolio of higher growth, higher margin businesses.
Eastman and Solutia aren't just a strong, strategic fit in terms of our business and products, but also in what we stand for. We share a similar operating philosophy and high performance culture, committed to the highest levels of quality and customer service.
Solutia also shares Eastman's commitment to offering sustainable solutions. The world is looking for materials that enhance safety, security, energy efficiency and quality of life, and those are exactly the kinds of products Solutia delivers. Their products have tremendous brand loyalty and will significantly add to our broad portfolio of sustainably-advantaged products.
We see this acquisition is also a significant step in our strategy to extend Eastman's global presence in emerging markets. In particular, it should significantly accelerate our growth efforts and create new opportunities in China.
With 11 of its 24 manufacturing sites located outside the U.S., Solutia will help Eastman diversify our asset base and geographic mix of our revenue. We expect the increased diversity of both our geographic and end-market exposure will result in more consistent earnings performance.
With a signed agreement now in place, we are working hard toward a successful closing in order to quickly realize the significant value that Solutia will bring to Eastman. And we have a clear path to completion.
This acquisition is subject to approval by Solutia stockholders. We will also be working on receiving the necessary regulatory approvals and satisfying the standard and customary closing conditions.
We expect to complete this work and close the deal by the middle of this year, and then get to work integrating these two global leading companies. Over the past several years, Eastman has successfully integrated a number of acquisitions, and I look forward to continuing that track record with this great company. Both Eastman and Solutia have a talented team of employees, and we will work closely to ensure a smooth transition.
In closing, we are excited about the opportunities this acquistion will create for Eastman and very much look forward to welcoming Solutia to the global Eastman team.
Thank you.

Exhibit 99.6
[Eastman logo]
[Safe Harbor language to scroll on screen]
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
[Jim on camera]
Hi, I'm Jim Rogers, Chairman and CEO of Eastman.
Thank you for allowing me a few minutes to tell you why I am excited about today's announcement. The reason is simple. You are an excellent company. You have great businesses, great products, and you've done an excellent job making Solutia a respected global leader.
You should know that for some time now, we at Eastman have been evaluating a number of growth opportunities. With Solutia, we knew we had a great fit. First off, you care about the same things we care about, like safety, quality, customer service and operational excellence. We share the same values and commitment to innovation, and we both value our high-performance culture.
Secondly, you share our same commitment to growth, and together I believe we can accelerate our efforts. We serve many of the same end-markets. We have complementary technology and business capabilities. And we both have a focus on emerging markets. I believe all of these things will create significant opportunities for us going forward.
Finally, and most importantly, I see us as a good fit because we both have a strong team of talented and dedicated employees. On behalf of everyone at Eastman, I just want to say how excited we are about today's announcement and what this means for our two companies. We very much look forward to welcoming Solutia to the global Eastman team.

Exhibit 99.7
Q1: Why are we acquiring Solutia?
A: First, Solutia is an excellent fit within our growth strategy. As you know, acquisitions have been a strategic tool for us to execute on our growth strategy. This one moves us in the right direction in key parameters that we have defined for ourselves, such as sustainability and emerging markets.
Solutia is a financially strong, leading performance materials and specialty chemicals company. It has three strong businesses, and industry leading positions in the markets that it serves. We believe that this acquisition will strengthen Eastman as a top-tier specialty chemical company with strong, stable margins and sustainable earnings and cash flows.
With Solutia we expect to be able to accelerate our growth efforts and expand our global presence, particularly in Asia Pacific. In addition, Solutia and Eastman share many complementary technologies and business capabilities that we believe will provide significant opportunities for additional growth.
Bottom linethe time is right. This is a good time for us to make this deal. We are ready.
Q2: What do Eastman and Solutia have in common that makes this a good acquisition?
A: Many of our key fundamentals are the same. They create value the same way we do. They go to market the same way we do. They are a market leader in many of their key markets just as we are in ours. They operate the types of businesses that we know how to run and we like to own. We realize that some of Solutia's businesses will be new to us, but Eastman and Solutia share complementary technologies and business capabilities, a polymer science backbone, similar operating philosophies and a high performance culture. In addition, the overlap of key end-markets is also expected to provide opportunities for growth. For example, we are both in the automotive market and displays.
Q3: How does this fit in with our growth strategy?
A: The acquisition of Solutia is a significant step in our growth strategy. It will broaden our geographic reach into emerging geographies, particularly China, and will give us more global balance in the future. It will establish a powerful combined platform with extensive organic growth opportunities for our businesses, and expands our portfolio of sustainable products, all of which are consistent with our priorities for growth. It moves us in the right direction in all of the key parameters we've described. Eastman and Solutia are focused on driving growth through similar macroeconomic growth trends  a growing middle class in emerging markets who are buying more premium products and the move toward more sustainable products globally.
Q4: What businesses does Solutia operate?
A: Solutia operates three businesses:
 
 
 
Q5: Where does Solutia have operations? Where are their manufacturing sites located? Where are they located?
A: Solutia is a global company based in the United States, and has more than 50 locations across five continents. Solutia has 24 manufacturing sites located in the U.S., Germany, Belgium, Brazil, U.K., Japan, Mexico, France and China. In addition, Solutia's site in Kuantan, Malaysia is adjacent to Eastman's manufacturing facility in that country. Solutia also has more than 30 technical centers and sales offices worldwide.
Q6: What is Solutia's annual sales revenue?
A: Solutia's annual sales revenue was approximately $2.1 billion in 2011.
Q7: How many employees does Solutia have?
A: There are approximately 3,400 Solutia employees globally.
Q8: Are you planning to keep Solutia's headquarters in St. Louis?
A: Combined headquarters will be in Kingsport, Tennessee. However, we do plan to maintain a presence in St. Louis. We recognize the talent that exists at Solutia and we will be thoughtful as we make decisions.
Q9: Will Eastman keep all of the Solutia employees? Will there be any layoffs?
A: It is important to remember that we are acquiring Solutia as part of our overall growth strategy. These are highly complementary businesses in which we intend to invest in their growth. We also recognize the strengths of Solutia's workforce, and will strive to find the most efficient way to combine the companies and do it in a thoughtful way. The combination of the two companies creates opportunities for personal and professional growth for employees of both companies.
Q10: How does this acquisition impact Eastman's current growth initiatives?
A: While this is a major growth initiative, we remain committed to our growth strategy, and to the priority growth platforms that we are currently pursuing, though this acquisition may affect the timing of certain investments. We have a number of exciting growth initiatives currently underway, and with Solutia, we will be able to add to those opportunities. As part of our normal process, we will continue to prioritize our best opportunities, recognizing that the strength of the combined companies will give us additional growth possibilities and the flexibility to continue our disciplined investment in future growth.
Q11: Do you believe it is smart to make an acquisition of this size in such an uncertain economy?
A: It depends on what you are acquiring and we believe that Solutia is a good investment that is well-managed with well-established businesses. That's why we were attracted to them, even in an uncertain economy. Yes, this is a large acquisition, but we are ready and capable of making this a success.
Q12: Will this be the largest acquisition Eastman has ever made?
A: Yes, this will be the largest single acquisition in Eastman's history. We will go from being a $7 billion to a $9 billion revenue company. We will increase the quality, stability and diversity of our portfolio of businesses. This is a significant step for Eastman - the time is right and we are ready to take advantage of this opportunity.
Q13: When will Eastman start to take actions to make Solutia a part of Eastman?
A: We are already working on finalizing our plans for the full integration of Solutia into Eastman, but none of those actions will be taken until after the transaction closes.
Q14: Are there any assets or parts of Solutia's businesses that aren't strategic to Eastman that we plan to exit?
A: We have not finalized our long-term plans for all businesses, but we are excited about Solutia's overall portfolio, and we think its strong businesses offer a great deal of growth potential to Eastman.
Q15: Have you thought about how you're going to integrate Solutia into our current segments and what the structure is going to look like afterwards?
A:We have spent a lot of time thinking about the new structure. We expect to combine similar products and markets and tie them in with comparable business models. When the transaction closes, we will provide additional details on integration.
Q16: Will any employees relocate to these new manufacturing locations?
A: We do not currently anticipate significant relocations to other areas.
Q17: Will Eastman move any manufacturing capabilities from its current sites to these new sites?
A: We do not anticipate that we will move any of our manufacturing capabilities from our current sites.
Q18: What other types of transactions is Eastman currently pursuing?
A: Our top priority is a smooth transition. Due to the size of this acquisition we expect a great deal of our focus will be spent integrating Solutia into Eastman. However we expect to continue to evaluate appropriate opportunities for expansion on a number of fronts, including emerging markets, access to feedstock, differentiated products or markets and sustainability.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the timing of completion of the proposed acquisition, the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 that
has been filed with the SEC, as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Eastman will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
Eastman will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Solutia and a prospectus of Eastman relating to Eastman's proposed acquisition of Solutia. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Eastman, Solutia, and the proposed acquisition. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Eastman's website at www.eastman.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Information" link or by writing Eastman at P.O. Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662, Attention: Investor Relations. Security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Eastman with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Eastman, Solutia, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed acquisition. Information regarding Eastman's directors and executive officers is available in Eastman's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, and information regarding Solutia's directors and executive officers is available in Solutia's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding persons who may be deemed participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.


