FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20120516115832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
1 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Current Report") is being filed by Eastman Chemical Company (the "Company") to retrospectively adjust certain items contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, filed on February 22, 2012 (the "2011 Form 10-K") to reflect management's adoption, effective January 1, 2012, of an accounting methodology change for the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit ("OPEB") plans actuarial gains and losses and the adoption of amended accounting guidance related to the presentation of other comprehensive income which became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  In addition, certain disclosures original contained in the 2011 Form 10-K have been enhanced in this Current Report based upon comments of the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  None of any such enhanced disclosures had any impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
As previously reported in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 7, 2012, management has elected to recognize all pension and OPEB plans actuarial gains and losses in its operating results rather than amortizing them over future periods.  Under the new method of accounting, these gains and losses are now measured annually at the plan's December 31 measurement date and recorded as a mark-to-market ("MTM") adjustment during the fourth quarter of each year.  Any interim remeasurements triggered by a curtailment, settlement, or significant plan change will be recognized as an MTM adjustment in the quarter in which such remeasurement event occurs.  Historically, total pension and OPEB costs were allocated to each segment.  In conjunction with the change in accounting principle, the service cost, which represents the benefits earned by active employees during the period, and amortization of prior service credits will continue to be allocated to each segment.  Interest costs, expected return on assets, and the MTM adjustment for actuarial gains and losses are now included in corporate expense and not allocated to segments.  Management believes this change in expense allocation better reflects the operating results of each business.  The financial information disclosed in this Current Report for each business segment reflects the retrospective application of this expense allocation change on each period.
The following Items of the 2011 Form 10-K are being adjusted retrospectively to reflect the adoption of the accounting methodology change and enhanced disclosures described above (which Items as adjusted are attached as Exhibits hereto and hereby incorporated by reference herein):
Item 6  Selected Financial Data
Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Item 15  The following Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits:
Exhibit 12.01  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
Exhibit 101.INS  XBRL Instance Document
Exhibit 101.SCH  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
Exhibit 101.CAL  XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase
Exhibit 101.LAB  XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase
Exhibit 101.PRE  XBRL Definition Linkbase Document
Exhibit 101.DEF  XBRL Definition Linkbase Document
No Items of the 2011 Form 10-K other than those identified above are being revised by this Current Report.  Information in this Current Report is as of December 31, 2011 and this filing does not reflect any subsequent information or events other than the adoption of the accounting methodology change, the adoption of amended accounting guidance related to the presentation of other comprehensive income which became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and the enhanced disclosures, all as described above.  Without limitation of the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the 2011 Form 10-K for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or becoming known to management subsequent to the date of filing of the 2011 Form 10-K.  More current information is contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2012 and other filings with the SEC.  This Current Report should be read in conjunction with the 2011 Form 10-K and such Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other filings.  The Form 10-Q and other filings contain important information regarding events, developments and updates to certain expectations of the Company that have occurred since the filing of the 2011 Form 10-K.
 
  2
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
Exhibit 23.01  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Exhibit 99.01  Item 6, Form 10-K  Selected Financial Data
Exhibit 99.02  Item 7, Form 10-K  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Exhibit 99.03  Item 8, Form 10-K  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Exhibit 99.04  Item 15, Form 10-K  Exhibit 12.01  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
Exhibit 101.INS  XBRL Instance Document
Exhibit 101.SCH  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
Exhibit 101.CAL  XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase
Exhibit 101.LAB  XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase
Exhibit 101.PRE  XBRL Definition Linkbase Document
Exhibit 101.DEF  XBRL Definition Linkbase Document
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
Exhibit 23.01
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-73808, No. 33-73810, No. 33-73812, No. 33-77844, No. 333-124558 and No. 333-170248) of Eastman Chemical Company of our report dated February 22, 2012, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and inventory costing (Note 2), for which the date is May 16, 2012, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
May 16, 2012
 
5
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
In third quarter 2011, Eastman Chemical Company's ("Eastman" or the "Company") Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock, distributed October 3, 2011 in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.  All shares and per share amounts in this Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Current Report") have been adjusted for all periods presented for the stock split.  For additional information, see Note 18, "Stockholders' Equity" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
1
 
 
In third quarter 2011, the Company completed two acquisitions in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment.  Eastman acquired Sterling Chemicals, Inc. ("Sterling"), a single site North American petrochemical producer, to produce non-phthalate plasticizers, including Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers, and acetic acid, and Eastman also acquired Scandiflex do Brasil S.A. Indstrias Qumicas ("Scandiflex"), a manufacturer of plasticizers located in So Paulo, Brazil.  For additional information see Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8  "Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements"  Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures" and Note 19, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges (Gains), Net" of this Current Report.
In third quarter 2011, the Company acquired Dynaloy, LLC ("Dynaloy"), a producer of formulated solvents.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and is reported in the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment.  Dynaloy adds materials science capabilities that are expected to complement growth of the CASPI segment's electronic materials product line.  For additional information see Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8  "Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements"  Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures" of this Current Report.
In first quarter 2011, the Company completed the sale of the polyethylene terephthalate ("PET") business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment.  The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in results from continuing operations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted ("GAAP") in the United States.  For additional information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
In second quarter 2010, Eastman completed the stock purchase of Genovique Specialties Corporation ("Genovique"), which was accounted for as a business combination.  The acquired business is a global producer of specialty plasticizers, benzoic acid, and sodium benzoate.  This acquisition included Genovique's manufacturing operations in Kohtla-Jrve, Estonia and Chestertown, Maryland and a joint venture in Wuhan, China.  Genovique's benzoate ester plasticizers were a strategic addition to Eastman's existing general-purpose and specialty non-phthalate plasticizers.  For additional information see Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8  "Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements"  Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures" and Note 19, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges (Gains), Net" of this Current Report.
In fourth quarter 2009, the Company discontinued its Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.  This decision was based on a number of factors, including high capital costs, the current and projected reduced spread between natural gas and oil and petroleum coke prices, and continued uncertainty regarding U.S. energy and environmental public policy.  For more information regarding the impact of this impairment on financial results, see the segment discussions in Exhibit 99.02 - Item 7  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8  "Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements"  Note 19, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges (Gains), Net " of this Current Report.
 
 
2
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.02
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted ("GAAP") in the United States, and should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Current Report").  All references to earnings per share ("EPS") contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
As previously reported, Eastman has elected to change its method of accounting for actuarial gains and losses for its pension and other postretirement benefit ("OPEB") plans to a more preferable method permitted under GAAP.  The new method recognizes actuarial gains and losses in the Company's operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur rather than amortizing them over future periods.  Under the new method of accounting, these gains and losses are now measured annually at December 31 and recorded as a mark-to-market ("MTM") adjustment during the fourth quarter of each year.  Any interim remeasurements triggered by a curtailment, settlement, or significant plan change will be recognized as an MTM adjustment in the quarter in which such remeasurement event occurs.  The new method has been retrospectively applied to financial results of all periods presented.  For additional information, see Note 2, "Accounting Methodology Change for Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
In third quarter 2011, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock, distributed October 3, 2011 in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.  All shares and per share amounts in this Current Report have been adjusted for all periods presented for the stock split.  For additional information, see Note 18, "Stockholders' Equity" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
3
 
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, the Company's management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures.  Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, impairment of long-lived assets, environmental costs, U.S. pension and other post-employment benefits, litigation and contingent liabilities, income taxes, and purchase accounting.  The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  The Company's management believes the critical accounting estimates described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Company's financial condition and results.  These estimates require management's most significant judgments in the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts
The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.  The Company believes, based on historical results, the likelihood of actual write-offs having a material impact on financial results is low.  However, if one of the Company's key customers was to file for bankruptcy, or otherwise be unwilling or unable to make its required payments, or there was a significant slow-down in the economy, the Company could increase its allowances.  This could result in a material charge to earnings.  The Company's allowances were $8 million and $5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles to be held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the carrying amount is not considered to be recoverable, an analysis of fair value is triggered.  An impairment is recorded for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the fair value.
The Company conducts its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing.  The testing of goodwill is performed at the reporting unit level which the Company has determined to be its operating segments. 
The Company applies a fair value methodology in testing the carrying value of goodwill for each reporting unit.  The key assumptions and estimates used in the Company's 2011 goodwill impairment testing included a long-term projection of revenues, expenses, and cash flows, the estimated weighted average cost of capital, and the estimated corporate tax rate.  The Company believes these assumptions are consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were present at the time the estimates were made.  However, actual results and amounts may be significantly different from the Company's estimates.  In addition, the use of different estimates or assumptions could result in materially different determinations.  If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit including goodwill, additional steps, including an allocation of the estimated fair value to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, would be necessary to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment. 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of various trademarks, are tested for potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value to the carrying amount.  The estimated fair value of the trademarks is determined based on an assumed royalty rate savings, discounted by the Company's estimated cost of capital.  The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is considered to be impaired when the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value of the trademarks.
 
4
 
At December 31, 2011, goodwill consisted primarily of $308 million in the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers and Inks ("CASPI") segment and $93 million in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segments.  Of the $101 million of intangible assets, $28 million is indefinite-lived relating to trademarks and is reflected as $14 million each in the CASPI and PCI segments.  The Company also had recorded goodwill and other intangibles associated with the Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.  In fourth quarter 2009, the Company announced the discontinuance of the Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project, which resulted in an impairment of $10 million for the Beaumont industrial gasification project goodwill and other intangible assets.
As a result of the tests performed during third quarter 2011, no impairment was determined to exist for goodwill or any of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets.  In the goodwill impairment analysis performed, fair values substantially exceeded the carrying values for each reporting unit.
As the Company's assumptions related to long-lived assets are subject to change, additional write-downs may be required in the future.  If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is adjusted, resulting in a charge to earnings.  The Company recognized a definite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $8 million resulting from an environmental regulatory change during fourth quarter 2010 impacting the fair value of air emission credits remaining from the previously discontinued Beaumont, Texas, industrial gasification project.  The Company recognized fixed (tangible) asset impairment charges of $133 million and goodwill and definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $46 million in results from continuing operations during 2009, related to the discontinuance of the Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.
Environmental Costs
The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount.  This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.  Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $11 million to the maximum of $29 million at December 31, 2011.
In accordance with GAAP, the Company also establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental and other assets it maintains.  Environmental assets, as defined by GAAP, include but are not limited to waste management units, such as landfills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds.  When these types of assets are constructed or installed, a reserve is established for the future costs anticipated to be associated with the retirement or closure of the asset based on an expected life of the environmental assets and the applicable regulatory closure requirements.  These future expenses are charged against earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets.  Currently, the Company estimates the useful life of each individual asset is up to 50 years.  If the Company changes its estimate of the asset retirement obligation costs or its estimate of the useful lives of these assets, expenses to be charged against earnings could increase or decrease.
In accordance with GAAP, the Company also monitors conditional obligations and will record reserves associated with them when and to the extent that more detailed information becomes available concerning applicable retirement costs.
The Company's reserve, including the above remediation, was $39 million at December 31, 2011 and $40 million at December 31, 2010, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and the best estimate of the amount accrued to date over the regulated assets' estimated useful lives for asset retirement obligation costs.
 
5
 
 
Pension and Other Post-employment Benefit Plans
The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits.  Additionally, Eastman subsidizes life insurance, health care, and dental benefits for eligible retirees and health care and dental benefits for retirees' eligible survivors.  The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Company's assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates) and expected return on plan assets.  In connection with its acquisition of Sterling Chemicals, Inc. ("Sterling") in 2011, the Company assumed Sterling's U.S. pension plans.  For the Company's U.S. defined benefit pension plans for each of Eastman and Sterling, the Company assumed discount rates of 4.88 percent and 4.83 percent, respectively, and an expected return on plan assets of 8.75 percent and 5.50 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2011.  The Company assumed a discount rate of 5.00 percent for its other post-employment benefit plan, the Company's only significant other post-employment benefit plan.  The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation.
The December 31, 2011 projected benefit obligation and 2012 expense are affected by year-end 2011 assumptions.  The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in the Company's long-term assumptions in the expected return on assets and assumed discount rate for all U.S. pension plans and other postretirement welfare plans.  The sensitivities below are specific to the time periods noted.  They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown.
The expected return on assets and assumed discount rate used to calculate the Company's pension and other post-employment benefit obligations are established each December 31.  The expected return on assets is based upon the long-term expected returns in the markets in which the pension trust invests its funds, primarily the domestic, international, private equity, and real estate markets.  Historically, over a ten year period, excluding 2008 which is considered an anomaly due to the global recession, the Company's average achieved actual return has been near the expected return on assets.  The assumed discount rate is based upon a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds, which are used to develop a yield curve.  This yield curve is applied to the expected durations of the pension and post-employment benefit obligations.  As future benefits under the U.S. benefit plan have been fixed at a certain contribution amount, changes in the health care cost trend assumptions do not have a material impact on the results of operations.
 
6
 
 
The Company uses fair value accounting for plan assets.  If actual experience differs from long-term assumptions for asset returns and discount rates, the difference is recognized as part of the MTM adjustment during the fourth quarter of each year, and any other quarter in which an interim remeasurement is triggered.  The MTM charges applied to earnings from continuing operations in 2011, 2010, and 2009 due to the actual experience versus assumptions of returns on plan assets and discount rates for the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans were $144 million, $53 million, and $91 million, respectively.
 
The Company does not anticipate that a change in pension and other post-employment obligations caused by a change in the assumed discount rate during 2012 will impact the cash contributions to be made to the pension plans during 2012.  While the amount of the change in these obligations does not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years.  The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement, attrition rates of employees, and other factors.  For further information regarding pension and other post-employment obligations, see Note 14, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
Litigation and Contingent Liabilities
From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business.  The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount.  The Company expenses legal costs, including those expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred.  Based upon facts and information currently available, the Company believes the amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by monetary damages, costs or expenses, and charges against earnings in particular periods.
Income Taxes
The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  The ability to realize the deferred tax assets is evaluated through the forecasting of taxable income using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning strategies.  Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.  In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from our estimates and assumptions, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated results of operations and statement of financial position.  As of December 31, 2011, a valuation allowance of $42 million has been provided against the deferred tax assets.
The Company recognizes income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrues interest related to unrecognized income tax positions, which is recorded as a component of the income tax provision.
 
7
 
 
Purchase Accounting
In general, the acquisition method of accounting requires companies to record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their respective fair market values at the date of acquisition.  The Company estimates fair value using the exit price approach which is defined as the price that would be received if we sold an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly market.  The value of an exit price is determined from the viewpoint of all market participants as a whole and may result in the Company valuing assets at a fair value that is not reflective of our intended use of the assets.  Any amount of the purchase price paid that is in excess of the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded in the line item goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets.  Management's judgment is used to determine the estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives for property, plant and equipment and amortization periods for intangible assets, and can materially affect the Company's results of operations.
PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
In addition to evaluating the Companys financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity and cash flow as reported in accordance with GAAP, management also reviews and evaluates certain alternative financial measures not prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Non-GAAP measures do not have definitions under GAAP and may be defined differently by and not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by, other companies.  As a result, management considers and evaluates non-GAAP measures in connection with a review of the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management cautions investors not to place undue reliance on such non-GAAP measures, but also to consider them with the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
This MD&A includes the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
in each case excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, MTM pension and OPEB adjustments, and early debt extinguishment costs, in each case described below.
During 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company recognized in earnings from continuing operations $144 million, $53 million, and $91 million net losses, respectively, for MTM adjustments for pension and OPEB plans actuarial adjustments
.
 
During 2011, the Company recognized $7 million in restructuring charges primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling and a $15 million gain from the sale of the previously impaired methanol and ammonia assets related to the terminated Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.
During 2010, the Company recognized $29 million in asset impairments and restructuring charges consisting of $20 million in severance and pension curtailment, $8 million for an intangible asset impairment resulting from an environmental regulatory change during fourth quarter 2010 impacting air emission credits remaining from the previously discontinued Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project, and $1 million of additional site closure charges.
During fourth quarter 2010, the Company completed a public debt restructuring including the early repayment of $500 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities.  The early repayment of debt resulted in a charge of $115 million, net.  For additional information regarding the early extinguishment costs, see Note 12, "Early Debt Extinguishment Costs", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
 
8
 
 
During 2009, the Company recognized $196 million in asset impairments and restructuring charges, primarily consisting of $179 million in asset impairments related to the Company's previously announced discontinuance of its Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and $19 million, net, for severance resulting from a reduction in force.
 
Eastman management evaluates and analyzes results and the impact on the Company of strategic decisions and actions relating to, among other things, cost reduction, growth, and profitability improvement initiatives, and other non-recurring or unusual events outside of normal business and operations, by considering Company and segment financial results and measures both including and excluding certain items.  The items excluded by Eastman management in its evaluation of results do not directly arise from Eastmans core operations, and generally are expected to be of an unusual or non-recurring nature.  Specifically, as presented in this report, Eastman has excluded asset impairments and restructuring charges and early debt extinguishment costs, which are expected to be non-recurring and result from unusual transactions, and MTM pension and OPEB plan adjustments, as these adjustments arise from a change in accounting principle on a Company-wide basis retrospectively applied to all prior periods.  Because these non-recurring or non-core costs and gains may materially affect the Companys financial condition or results in a specific period in which they are recognized, management also evaluates, and makes resource allocation and performance evaluation decisions based on, the related non-GAAP measures excluding such items.  In addition to using such measures to evaluate results in a specific period, management believes that such measures may provide more complete and consistent comparisons of the Company's operational performance on a period-over-period historical basis and a better indication of expected future trends.  Management discloses these non-GAAP measures, and the related reconciliations, because it believes investors use these metrics in evaluating longer-term period-over-period performance, and to allow investors to better understand and evaluate the information used by management to assess the Company's and its segments' operating performance, make resource allocation decisions, and evaluate organizational and individual performance in determining certain performance-based compensation.
These non-GAAP financial measures and the accompanying reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are presented in "Results of Operations" and "Summary by Operating Segment" in this MD&A.
In addition to the non-GAAP measures presented in this MD&A and other periodic reports, from time to time management evaluates and discloses to investors and securities analysts the non-GAAP measure cash provided by operating activities excluding certain items when analyzing, among other things, business performance, liquidity and financial position, and performance-based compensation.  Eastman management uses this non-GAAP measure in conjunction with the GAAP measure cash provided by operating activities because it believes it is a more appropriate metric to evaluate the cash flows from Eastman's core operations that are available to grow the business and create stockholder value, as well as because it allows for a more consistent period-over-period presentation of such amounts.  In its evaluation, Eastman management generally excludes the impact of certain non-core, unusual, or non-recurring activities and decisions of management because such activities and decisions are not considered core, on-going components of continuing operations and the decisions to undertake or not to undertake such activities may be made irrespective of the cash generated from continuing operations.  From time to time, management discloses this non-GAAP measure and the related reconciliation to investors and securities analysts to allow them to better understand and evaluate the information used by management in its decision making processes and because management believes investors and securities analysts use similar measures to assess Company performance, liquidity, and financial position over multiple periods and to compare these with other companies.
Similarly, from time to time, Eastman discloses to investors and securities analysts a measure of free cash flow, which management develops based on the non-GAAP measure cash provided by operating activities, as adjusted, described above, less the amounts of capital expenditures and dividends, as management believes such items are generally funded from available cash and, as such, should be considered in determining free cash flow.  Eastman management believes this is the appropriate metric to use to evaluate the Company's overall ability to generate cash to fund future operations, inorganic growth opportunities, and to service the Company's debt obligations.  Management believes this metric is useful to investors and securities analysts in order to provide them with information similar to that used by management in evaluating potential future cash available for various initiatives and because management believes investors and securities analysts often use a similar measure of free cash flow to compare the results and value, of comparable companies.
 
 
9
 
 
2011 OVERVIEW
The Company generated sales revenue of $7.2 billion and $5.8 billion for 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Sales revenue increases were primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume.  The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, primarily for propane, paraxylene, and wood pulp.  The higher sales volume was primarily due to growth in PCI segment plasticizer product lines, the fourth quarter 2010 restart of a previously idled olefins cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility, and strengthened end-use demand primarily for CASPI segment products.  The increase was also due to growth initiatives including the increased utilization of the Korean acetate tow manufacturing facility and the Eastman Tritan copolyester resin manufacturing line, and the acquisition of the Genovique Specialties Corporation ("Genovique") plasticizer product lines.
TM
Operating earnings were $937 million in 2011 compared to $844 million in 2010.  Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains and MTM pension and OPEB adjustments, described above in "Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures", operating earnings increased primarily due to higher selling prices which more than offset higher raw material and energy costs, and higher sales volume and increased capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs, particularly in the first half of the year.  Operating earnings in 2011 also included $17 million of costs from an unplanned outage of an olefins cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility.
Earnings from continuing operations were $606 million in 2011 compared to $416 million in 2010.  Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, MTM pension and OPEB adjustments, and early debt extinguishment costs, earnings from continuing operations were $689 million and $536 million, respectively.  Earnings from continuing operations were $4.24 per diluted share in 2011 compared to $2.81 per diluted share in 2010.  Excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, MTM pension and OPEB adjustments, and early debt extinguishment costs, earnings were $4.81 per diluted share and $3.63 per diluted share, respectively.
Eastman generated $625 million in cash from operating activities in 2011, including $102 million in contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and a $110 million tax payment for the tax gain on the sale of the PET business completed in first quarter 2011.  
 
In 2011 and early 2012, the Company completed and progressed on both organic (internal growth) and inorganic (external growth through joint venture and acquisition) growth initiatives:
 
10
 
 
In first quarter 2011, the Company completed the sale of the PET business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment.The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in results from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.  The total cash proceeds of the transaction were $615 million.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The Company's results of operations as presented in the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report are summarized and analyzed below.
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
11
 
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Sales revenue for 2011 compared to 2010 increased $1.3 billion.  The increase was primarily due to higher selling prices in all segments (particularly in the PCI segment) and higher sales volume primarily in the PCI segment.  The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, primarily for propane, paraxylene, and wood pulp.  The higher sales volume was primarily due to growth in PCI segment plasticizer product lines, the fourth quarter 2010 restart of a previously idled olefins cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility, and strengthened end-use demand primarily for CASPI segment products.  The increase was also due to growth initiatives including the increased utilization of the Korean acetate tow manufacturing facility and the Eastman Tritan copolyester resin manufacturing line, and the acquisition of the Genovique plasticizer product lines.
TM
2010 Compared to 2009
Sales revenue for 2010 compared to 2009 increased $1.4 billion.  The sales revenue increase was primarily due to higher sales volume in all segments attributed to improved end-use demand in packaging, durable goods, and other markets, in part due to the recovery in the global economy, as well as the positive impact of growth initiatives.  Sales revenue increases were also due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs, primarily in the PCI and CASPI segments.
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Gross profit for 2011 increased compared with 2010 in all segments.  Gross profit increased primarily due to higher selling prices more than offseting higher raw material and energy costs by approximately $120 million, and higher sales volume and increased capacity utilization, which led to lower unit costs, particularly in the first half of the year.  Gross profit in 2011 included $17 million of costs from an unplanned outage of an olefins cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility.  Gross profit as a percentage of sales for 2011 decreased compared with 2010 primarily due to selling prices increasing 14 percent while raw material and energy costs increased 32 percent.
 
2010 Compared to 2009
Gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of sales for 2010 increased compared with 2009 in all segments.  The increase was due to higher sales volume and lower unit costs from higher capacity utilization of approximately $250 million.  In addition, higher selling prices more than offset higher raw material and energy costs by approximately $100 million.  Gross profit in 2010 also included $12 million from acetyl license revenue.  In first quarter 2010, the Company experienced a power outage at its Longview, Texas manufacturing facility.  Costs related to the outage were mostly offset by the settlement of the related insurance claim.  Gross profit in 2009 included approximately $20 million in costs related to the reconfiguration of the Longview, Texas facility.  The reconfiguration costs impacted the PCI and CASPI segments.
 
 
12
 
 
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to increased compensation expense and higher costs of growth and business development initiatives.
Research and development expenses increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher R&D expenses for growth initiatives.
2010 Compared to 2009
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased performance-based compensation expense and higher discretionary spending, including expenses for growth initiatives.
Research and development expenses increased for 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher R&D expenses for growth initiatives.
 
Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges (Gains), Net
In 2011, asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains were net gains of $8 million.  A gain of $15 million was recognized from the sale of the previously impaired methanol and ammonia assets related to the terminated Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and restructuring charges of $7 million were primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling.
 
In 2010, asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains were net charges of $29 million and consisted primarily of severance and pension curtailment charges and an intangible asset impairment.  Severance charges of $18 million included $15 million for the previously announced voluntary separation program in fourth quarter 2010 and $3 million primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Genovique in second quarter 2010.  Restructuring charges of $2 million for pension curtailment are also related to the voluntary separation program in fourth quarter 2010.  The intangible asset impairment of $8 million resulted from an environmental regulatory change impacting air emission credits remaining from the previously discontinued Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project in fourth quarter 2010.
 
 
13
 
 
In 2009, asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains were net charges of $196 million and consisted of $179 million in asset impairments related to the Company's previously announced discontinuance of its Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and $19 million, net, for severance resulting from a reduction in force.
For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, primarily related to recent strategic decisions and actions, see Note 19, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges (Gains), Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
Operating Earnings
Net Interest Expense
2011 Compared to 2010
Net interest expense decreased $23 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower borrowing costs resulting from the debt restructuring in fourth quarter 2010 and higher capitalized interest resulting from higher capital spending.
For 2012, the Company expects net interest expense to remain consistent with 2011, excluding the expected impact of the acquisition of Solutia.
2010 Compared to 2009
Net interest expense increased $21 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower capitalized interest resulting from lower capital spending and higher average borrowings.
Early Debt Extinguishment Costs
During fourth quarter 2010, the Company completed a public debt restructuring comprised of the sale of $500 million aggregate principal amount of new debt securities with maturities five and ten years from issuance and the early repayment of $500 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities.  The debt restructuring allowed the Company to favorably adjust its debt maturities and reduce future interest costs on its long-term debt.  The early repayment of debt resulted in a charge of $115 million, net.  For additional information regarding the early extinguishment costs, see Note 12, "Early Debt Extinguishment Costs", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
 
14
 
 
Other Charges (Income), Net
Included in other charges (income), net are gains or losses on foreign exchange transactions, results from equity investments, gains or losses on business venture investments, gains from the sale of non-operating assets, certain litigation costs, fees on securitized receivables, other non-operating income, and other miscellaneous items.  Investment gains in 2011 included increased earnings from the Nanjing, China joint venture and sales of business venture investments.
Provision for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations
The 2011 effective tax rate reflects an $8 million tax benefit recognized due to an increased level of capital investment which qualified for additional state tax credits.
The 2010 effective tax rate reflected a $9 million tax charge associated with a nondeductible, early distribution under the executive deferred compensation plan of previously earned compensation as a result of certain participants electing early withdrawal.
The 2009 effective tax rate reflected an $11 million tax charge associated with the recapture of gasification investment tax credits, a $7 million tax charge associated with a change in accounting method for tax purposes to accelerate timing of deductions for manufacturing repairs expense and a $5 million tax benefit from the reversal of tax reserves due to the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations.
The Company expects its effective tax rate in 2012 will be approximately 33 percent, excluding the expected impact of the acquisition of Solutia.
 
15
 
 
Earnings from Continuing Operations and Diluted Earnings per Share
Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share
Earnings of $9 million and $9 million and a loss of $22 million, net of tax in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, resulted from discontinued operations of the PET business of the Performance Polymers segment.  Corporate costs which were allocated to the Performance Polymers segment have been reallocated to other segments in the Company's financial statements.  For additional information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT
The Company's products and operations are currently managed and reported in four reportable operating segments, consisting of the CASPI segment, the Fibers segment, the PCI segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.  For additional information concerning the Company's operating businesses and products,see Note 23, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
 
16
 
 
In first quarter 2011, the Company completed the sale of the PET business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment.The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in results from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.  For additional information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
 
Sales revenue and expenses not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in segment operating results for either of the periods presented and are shown in Note 23, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report, as "other" sales revenue and operating losses.  As discussed in Note 23, these "other" operating losses are $222 million, $154 million, and $354 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Included in 2011 is a $15 million gain from the sale of the previously impaired methanol and ammonia assets related to the terminated Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.  Included in 2010 and 2009 are $8 million and $179 million, respectively, in asset impairments related to the discontinuance of its Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.  Included in 2011, 2010, and 2009 are $144 million, $53 million, and $91 million, respectively, in MTM adjustments for pension and OPEB plans actuarial net losses.
 
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Sales revenue for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume.  The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs and were also attributed to strengthened demand, particularly in the U.S., and tight industry supply particularly in the first half of the year.  The higher sales volume was attributed primarily to strengthened end-use demand in the packaging, durable goods, and transportation markets, particularly in the U.S., and was in part enabled by recent Eastman capacity expansions.  Strengthened demand was primarily attributed to economic growth and contributed to tight industry supply as demand outpaced market capacity.
 
17
 
 
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices, higher sales volume, and the increased benefits from cracking propane to produce low-cost propylene, which more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.  In 2011, operating earnings included $5 million of costs from the unplanned outage of an olefins cracking unit.  The restructuring charges for 2010 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
 
 
2010 Compared to 2009
Sales revenue for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices.  The higher sales volume was attributed to strengthened end-use demand in the packaging and transportation markets primarily in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa and the United States and Canada regions, in part due to the recovery in the global economy, and the positive impact of growth initiatives, including the hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing capacity expansion in Middelburg, the Netherlands which was completed in fourth quarter 2009.  The higher selling prices were primarily in response to higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for propane.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume, higher capacity utilization, which led to lower unit costs, and higher selling prices, which more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.  Operating earnings in 2009 included approximately $5 million in costs related to the reconfiguration of the Longview, Texas facility.  The restructuring charges for 2010 and 2009 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
Growth Initiatives
The Company is progressing on both organic and inorganic growth initiatives in the CASPI segment.  The segment is meeting growing demand for specialty hydrocarbon resins by completing two capacity expansions in 2011: an additional expansion in Middelburg, the Netherlands and a debottleneck in Longview, Texas.  In 2011, CASPI expanded its presence in the electronic materials market through the acquisition of Dynaloy and its formulated cleaners business.
 
18
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Sales revenue for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to a favorable shift in product mix, higher selling prices, and higher sales volume.  The favorable shift in product mix was mainly due to higher acetate tow sales volume resulting from increased utilization of the recently completed acetate tow manufacturing facility in Korea.  The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for wood pulp.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to higher acetate tow sales volume in Asia Pacific and Europe and higher selling prices, partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.  Higher acetate tow sales volume in Europe was enabled by the Korean capacity expansion, which allowed the Company to reallocate its global product supply to European markets.  The restructuring charges for 2010 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
2010 Compared to 2009
Sales revenue for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and a favorable shift in product mix.  The higher sales volume and favorable shift in product mix were due to higher sales volume of acetate tow and of acetate yarn, both attributed to strengthened demand due to the global economic recovery.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume for acetate tow and acetate yarn, improved acetyl stream capacity utilization and a favorable shift in product mix.  The restructuring charges for 2010 and 2009 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
 
19
 
 
Growth Initiatives
The Company has entered into a joint venture for a 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in China.  The facility is expected to be operational in mid-2013.  Eastman has 45 percent ownership of the joint venture and expects to provide 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the joint venture from the Company's manufacturing facility in Kingsport.
During first quarter 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of and commenced production at the Korean acetate tow manufacturing facility.  The facility was operating at full production beginning in fourth quarter 2010.
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Sales revenue for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume.  The increased selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for feedstocks, paraxylene, and propylene, and also attributed to strengthened demand in North America and tight industry supply, particularly for olefin-derivative product lines due to recovering economic conditions in the first half of the year.  Greater than 90 percent of the higher sales volume was due to growth in plasticizer product lines, which included the acquired Genovique plasticizer product lines, particularly in North America and Europe, and the restart of the previously idled Longview, Texas olefins cracking unit.  In addition to recovering economic conditions, the growth in plasticizer product lines was aided by changing government regulations and consumer shifts to non-phthlate plasticizers that serve high growth markets.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings in 2011 increased compared to 2010 due to higher selling prices, higher sales volume, and the increased benefits from cracking propane to produce low-cost propylene, which more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.  The United States and Canada region operating earnings increased 56 percent.  In 2011, operating earnings included $8 million from the acetyl technology license and costs of $11 million from the unplanned outage of an olefins cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility.  In 2010, operating earnings included $12 million from the acetyl technology license.  In 2011, operating earnings included $7 million in restructuring charges, primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling.  In 2010, the restructuring charges reflect the segment's portion of severance charges. 
 
20
 
 
2010 Compared to 2009
Sales revenue for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices.  The higher sales volume included growth in plasticizer product lines, both in heritage products as well as in product lines added with the acquisition of Genovique plasticizer product lines, and also attributed to strengthened end-use demand due to the global economic recovery.  The higher selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings in 2010 increased compared to 2009 due to higher selling prices more than offsetting higher raw material and energy costs, higher sales volume, and increased capacity utilization which led to lower unit costs.  Operating earnings in 2010 also included $12 million from acetyl license revenue.  The restructuring charges for 2010 and 2009 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.  Operating results in 2009 included approximately $15 million in costs related to the reconfiguration of the Longview, Texas facility.
Growth Initiatives
The Company completed several initiatives to expand its non-phthalate plasticizer business, including the acquisitions of Sterling and Scandiflex in 2011 and Genovique in 2010.  In third quarter 2011, the Company acquired Sterling, a single site North American petrochemical producer.  The acquisition of Sterling will allow an idled plasticizer unit to be retrofitted to produce non-phthalate plasticizers, with the first of two phases expected to be online in the first half of 2012 and the second phase to be determined at a later date based on demand.  Also, in third quarter 2011, the Company acquired Scandiflex, a manufacturer of plasticizers located in So Paulo, Brazil.  In second quarter 2010, the Company acquired Genovique, a global producer of specialty non-phthalate plasticizers for water-based adhesives and other applications.  The acquisitions of Sterling and Scandiflex in 2011 and Genovique in 2010 added to the Company's portfolio of non-phthalate plasticizers that serve high growth markets.  The Company also plans to increase capacity of 2-ethyl hexanol in first half 2012 to support expected growth in the plasticizers, coatings, and fuel additive markets. 
To further improve its competitive cost position over purchasing olefins in the North American market, the Company restarted a previously idled cracking unit at the Longview, Texas facility in 2010.  This restart was prompted by a favorable shift in market conditions for olefins raw materials that is expected to continue over the next several years.  The Company has three operating cracking units as well as a fourth cracking unit which is currently shutdown.
 
21
 
 
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Sales revenue for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices.  Selling prices increased primarily in response to higher raw material and energy costs, particularly for paraxylene.  Slightly lower sales volume was attributed to weakened demand for copolyester product lines, particularly in packaging and consumer durable goods end markets, and some customer shift to other plastic materials that do not use paraxylene as a raw material.
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices more than offsetting higher raw material and energy costs and the positive impact of the Eastman Tritan copolyester growth initiative.  Restructuring charges for 2010 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
2010 Compared to 2009
Sales revenue for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume.  The higher sales volume was attributed to improved end-use demand across all markets, in part due to the global economic recovery, as well as the positive impact of growth initiatives for core copolyesters and the Tritan copolyester product lines. 
TM
Excluding restructuring charges, operating earnings for 2010 increased compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume, resulting in higher capacity utilization and lower unit costs.  The restructuring charges for 2010 and 2009 reflect the segment's portion of severance charges.
 
22
 
 
Growth Initiatives
The Company is adding another 30,000 metric tons of resin capacity at its facility in Kingsport, Tennessee for Tritan copolyester polymer, which is expected to be operational in early 2012.  The Company is expanding its capacity for CHDM, a monomer used in the manufacture of copolyesters, in two phases with the first operational in fourth quarter 2011 and the second expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.  The Company is also expanding its cellulose triacetatecapacity, with the new capacity expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.  Eastman expects that the overall segment decrease in sales volume, particularly in second half 2011, is a temporary slowdown and expects growth to resume in the long-term.
TM
 
The monomer manufacturing facility and the first Eastman Tritan copolyester resin manufacturing line in Kingsport, Tennessee commenced production in first quarter 2010.
TM
SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION  2011 COMPARED WITH 2010
Sales Revenue
Sales revenue in the United States and Canada increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume, particularly in the PCI segment.
Sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices in all segments, and a favorable shift in product mix and higher sales volume, primarily in the Fibers segment.  The sales volume increase was less than other regions due to lower sales volume in the Specialty Plastics segment offsetting increases in the other segments.
Sales revenue in Europe, Middle East, and Africa increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices in all segments and higher sales volume, particularly in the PCI segment.
Sales revenue in Latin America increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly in the PCI and CASPI segments.  Lower sales volume was primarily due to sales being directed to other regions.
 
23
 
 
With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets.  To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars or euros.  In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate.  For additional information concerning these practices, see Note 13, "Derivatives", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report and Part II, Item 7A--"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" of the 2011 Form 10-K.
SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION  2010 COMPARED WITH 2009
Sales Revenue
Sales revenue in the United States and Canada increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volumes in all segments, particularly the PCI segment, and higher selling prices in all segments except the Fibers segment.
Sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume particularly in the Specialty Plastics segments, higher selling prices in all segments, and a favorable shift in product mix in all segments.
Sales revenue in Europe, Middle East, and Africa increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and a favorable shift in product mix in all segments.  The region had minimal price effect change compared to other regions due to fewer sales from commodity product lines.
Sales revenue in Latin America increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales volume and higher selling prices in all segments.
 
 
24
 
 
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Cash Flows
Cash provided by operating activities increased $50 million in 2011 compared with 2010 and included a $110 million tax payment for the tax gain on the sale of the PET business completed in first quarter 2011 and a $200 million impact for the adoption of amended accounting guidance for transfers of financial assets which impacts the financial statement presentation for activity under the Company's accounts receivable securitization program in 2010.  In addition, cash provided by operating activities in 2011 was impacted by an increase in working capital and higher cash payments for employee pension and incentive pay plans during the year, which were partially offset by higher net earnings.  Working capital increased primarily due to increased inventory primarily as a result of increased raw material costs, increased accounts receivable primarily due to increased sales revenue, and decreased accounts payable primarily due to decreased raw material purchases due to lower sales volume near year-end.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased $183 million, including a $200 million negative impact from the adoption of amended accounting guidance for transfers of financial assets, which impacts the financial statement presentation of activity under the Company's accounts receivable securitization program in 2010.  In addition, cash provided by operating activities in 2010 was impacted by significantly higher net earnings, offset by an increase in working capital and the inclusion in operating cash flow in 2009 of a benefit generated by a change in the tax method for capitalizing assets.  Working capital increased due to increased trade receivables primarily attributed to strong sales revenues throughout the year and increased inventories due to higher quantities attributed to improved demand for the Company's products and higher costs.  Both the increase in receivables and inventory were partially offset by an increase in accounts payable driven by a higher level of purchasing activity. 
 
Cash used in investing activities decreased $300 million in 2011.  The decrease was primarily related to the receipt of $615 million from the sale of the PET business offsetting investment of $200 million in short-term time deposits having staggered maturities between three and ten months at the investment date and higher capital expenditures, as well as slightly lower payments for acquisitions and investments in joint ventures.  Cash used for additions to properties and equipment was $457 million in 2011 and $243 million in 2010.
Cash used in investing activities increased $73 million in 2010.  The increase was primarily related to higher cash outflows for acquisitions and investments in joint ventures, including the acquisition of Genovique and the Korean acetate tow facility, which more than offset lower capital expenditures.  Cash used for additions to properties and equipment was $243 million in 2010 and $310 million in 2009.
Cash used in financing activities increased $12 million in 2011.  Higher cash outflows for share repurchases and dividends and lower proceeds from borrowings and stock option exercises and other items were mostly offset by significantly lower cash outflows for repayment of borrowings.  The payment of dividends ($136 million in 2011 and $127 million in 2010) is also reflected in financing activities in all periods.
 
25
 
 
 
The increase in cash used in financing activities of $429 million in 2010 was primarily related to higher cash outflows for repayment of borrowings, including for early repayment of $500 million principal amount of outstanding long term debt, and share repurchases, which more than offset higher cash receipts for proceeds from borrowings and proceeds from stock option exercises and other items.  The payment of dividends ($127 million in 2010 and $128 million in 2009) is also reflected in financing activities in all periods.
Excluding the expected impact of the acquisition of Solutia, in 2012, the Company expects capital expenditures of between $400 million and $425 million and U.S. defined benefit pension plan funding of $100 million.  Assuming the acquisition of Solutia mid-2012, the priorities for uses of available cash in 2012 are expected to be payment of the quarterly cash dividend, repayment of debt, pension funding, and funding targeted growth initiatives.
Liquidity
The Company had cash and cash equivalents and short-term time deposits as follows:
In addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company had access to the sources of liquidity described below.
In December 2011, the Company entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility") expiring December 2016.  The Credit Facility replaces, and has terms substantially similar to, the $700 million revolving credit agreement entered into in April 2006 (the "Prior Credit Facility") which was terminated concurrently with the entry into the Credit Facility.  Borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates and a commitment fee is paid on the total unused commitment.  At December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility, and at December 31, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes.  Accordingly, any outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce capacity for borrowings available under the Credit Facility.  Given the expiration date of the Credit Facility, any commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long-term borrowings because the Company has the ability and intent to refinance such borrowings on a long-term basis.
Additionally, at December 31, 2011, the Company also had a $200 million line of credit under its annually renewable accounts receivable securitization agreement ("A/R Facility").  The A/R Facility was renewed in July 2011.  Borrowings under the A/R Facility are subject to interest rates based on a spread over the lender's borrowing costs, and the Company pays a fee to maintain availability of the A/R Facility.  At December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the A/R Facility.  For more information, see Note 11, "Borrowings" and Note 15, "Commitments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
The Credit Facility and the A/R Facility contain a number of customary covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios.  The Company was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods presented.  In addition, the entire amount of these facilities was available without violating applicable covenants as of December 31, 2011.
 
26
 
 
During fourth quarter 2010, the Company completed a public debt restructuring comprised of the sale of $500 million aggregate principal amount of new five and ten year debt securities and the early repayment of $500 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities.  The debt restructuring allowed the Company to favorably adjust its debt maturities and reduce future interest costs on its long-term debt.  The early repayment of debt resulted in a charge of $115 million, net.  See Note 11, "Borrowings" and Note 12, "Early Debt Extinguishment Costs", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report for further information regarding debt issuance and extinguishment.
For more information regarding interest rates, see Note 11, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
 
In 2011, 2010, and 2009 the Company made $102 million, $35 million, and $181 million, respectively, in contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  The Company expects to make total cash contributions of $100 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2012, of which $70 million is the minimum required cash contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Excess contributions made in 2011 and those anticipated for 2012 are made in order to keep the plans' funded status above 80 percent under the Pension Protection Act in order to avoid partial benefit restrictions on accelerated forms of payment.
Cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, short-term time deposits,
 
and the other sources of liquidity described above are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements.  However, the Company's cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw material availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastman's products, capacity utilization, and other factors described under "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" below.  The Company believes maintaining a financial profile consistent with an investment grade company is important to its long term strategic and financial flexibility.
On January 26, 2012, in connection with its entry into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia and in order to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition, the Company entered into an agreement with lenders which contains commitments for a $3.5 billion senior unsecured bridge term loan facility and sets out the principal terms of a senior unsecured term loan facility for up to $1.25 billion, with any commitments in respect of the term loan facility reducing on a dollar-for-dollar basis commitments under the bridge term loan facility.  Final terms of this financing will be contained in definitive agreements relating to such indebtedness.
Capital Expenditures
Capital expenditures were $457 million, $243 million, and $310 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Discretionary spending on certain capital projects was deferred in late 2009 in response to the global recession.  Capital expenditures remained at a level sufficient for required maintenance and certain strategic growth initiatives through first nine months 2010.  In fourth quarter 2010, the Company increased spending on discretionary infrastructure projects and certain strategic growth initiatives to $110 million which carried into 2011.  Capital expenditures in 2011 primarily increased due to organic growth initiatives, particularly in the Specialty Plastics, CASPI, and PCI segments.  Excluding the expected impact of the acquisition of Solutia, the Company expects that 2012 capital spending will be between $400 million and $425 million.
Excluding the expected impact of the acquisition of Solutia, the Company expects 2012 depreciation and amortization to be slightly higher than 2011 expenses of $273 million, primarily due to the completion of capacity expansions and a full year of depreciation on assets from 2011 acquisitions, including Sterling.
Other Commitments
At December 31, 2011, the Company's obligations related to outstanding indebtedness in the form of notes and debentures totaled approximately $1.6 billion to be paid over a period of approximately 15 years.
 
27
 
 
The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2011 totaling approximately $1.4 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business.  The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable, and month-to-month operating leases totaling $105 million over a period of several years.  Of the total lease commitments, approximately 10 percent relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 60 percent relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities, and land; and approximately 30 percent relate to railcars.
In addition, the Company had other liabilities at December 31, 2011 totaling approximately $1.6 billion related primarily to pension, retiree medical, other post-employment obligations, and environmental reserves.
The obligations described above are summarized in the following table:
Off Balance Sheet and Other Financing Arrangements
If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it has guaranteed a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets.  Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2011 totaled $184 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars and company aircraft.  Leases with guarantee amounts totaling $139 million and $45 million will expire in 2012 and 2016 and beyond, respectively. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that the likelihood of a material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.
As described in Note 8, "Equity Investments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report, Eastman has a 50 percent interest in and serves as the operating partner in Primester, a joint venture which manufactures cellulose acetate at Eastman's Kingsport, Tennessee plant.  This investment is accounted for under the equity method.  
Eastman's net investment in the joint venture at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $28 million and $32 million, respectively, which was comprised of the recognized portion of the venture's accumulated deficits, long-term amounts owed to Primester, and a line of credit from Eastman to Primester.  
 
28
 
 
The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including special purpose entities, for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements with contractually narrow or limited purposes.  Thus, Eastman is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the above or any other such relationships.
The accounting guidance on consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs") is effective for all VIEs or potential VIEs the Company is involved with on or after January 1, 2010.  This guidance amended the evaluation criteria to identify which entity has a controlling financial interest of a variable interest entity and requires ongoing reassessments.  The Company has evaluated its material contractual relationships under this guidance and has concluded that the entities involved in these relationships are not VIEs or, in the case of Primester, a joint venture that manufactures cellulose acetate at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee plant, the Company has shared control of the VIE.  As such, the Company is not required to consolidate these entities.
Guarantees and claims also arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with joint venture partners, suppliers, customers, and other parties when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others, if specified triggering events occur.  Non-performance under a contract could trigger an obligation of the Company.  The Company's current other guarantees include guarantees relating primarily to intellectual property, environmental matters, and other indemnifications and have arisen through the normal course of business.  The ultimate effect on future financial results is not subject to reasonable estimation because considerable uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of these claims, if they were to occur.  These other guarantees have terms of between 1 and 15 years with maximum potential future payments of approximately $80 million in the aggregate, with none of these guarantees individually significant to the Company's operating results, financial position, or liquidity.  The Company's current expectation is that future payment or performance related to non-performance under other guarantees is remote.
Treasury Stock
On October 3, 2011, the Company distributed a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.  For additional information, see Note 18, "Stockholders Equity" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
'
In October 2007, the Company's Board of Directors authorized $700 million for repurchase of the Company's outstanding common stock.  The Company completed the $700 million repurchase authorization in November 2010, acquiring a total of 22.4 million shares.  
In August 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized $300 million for the repurchase of the Company's outstanding common.  The Company completed the $300 million repurchase authorization in June 2011, acquiring a total of 7.1 million shares.
In February 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $300 million of the Company's outstanding common stock at such times, in such amounts, and on such terms, as determined to be in the best interests of the Company.  As of December 31, 2011, a total of 4,757,639 shares of common stock have been repurchased under this authorization for a total amount of approximately $202 million.
During 2011, the Company repurchased 7,258,031 shares of common stock for a cost of approximately $316 million.
Dividends
The Company's Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.235 per share in first and second quarters and $0.260 per share in third and fourth quarters 2011 for a total of $0.990 per share in 2011.  The Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.220 per share in first, second, and third quarters and $0.235 per share in fourth quarter 2010 for a total of $0.895 per share in 2010, and $0.220 per share for all quarters, for a total of $0.880 per share in 2009.  The Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.260 per share during the first quarter of 2012, payable on April 2, 2012 to stockholders of record on March 15, 2012.
 
29
 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL
Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal are regulated by various governmental agencies.  In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs.  In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure and postclosure under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Reserves for environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastman's policies as described in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.  Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required management does not believe that the Company's liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount.  This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.  Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $11 million to the maximum of $29 million at December 31, 2011.
In addition to remediation activities, the Company establishes reserves for closure and postclosure costs associated with the environmental assets it maintains.  Environmental assets include but are not limited to waste management units, such as landfills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds.  When these types of assets are constructed or installed, a reserve is established for the anticipated future costs associated with the closure of the asset based on its expected life and the applicable regulatory closure requirements.  These future expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets.  The best estimate accrued to date over the facilities' estimated useful lives for asset retirement obligation costs is $28 million at December 31, 2011.
GAAP requires an entity to recognize a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation ("CARO") when incurred if the liability can be reasonably estimated.  The Company has performed an examination of various asset categories as of December 31, 2011.  Although it may have CAROsat certain of its facilities, including, but not limited to, the potential for asbestos abatement activities, the Company is unable to determine potential settlement dates to be used in fair value calculations for estimating these obligations as a result of an absence of plans or expectations to undertake a major renovation or demolition project that would require the removal of asbestos.  The Company continues to monitor these conditional obligations, as well as any new ones that may develop, and will record reserves associated with them when and to the extent that more detailed information becomes available concerning applicable retirement costs.  The recorded obligations did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
 
Reserves related to environmental asset retirement obligations accounted for approximately 75 percent of the total environmental reserve at December 31, 2011.  Currently, the Company's environmental assets are expected to reach the end of their useful lives at different times over the next 50 years.  If the Company was to invest in numerous new environmental assets, or, these assets were to require closure a significant number of years before the Company anticipated they would, the amortization on them would increase, and could have a material negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  The Company views the likelihood of this occurrence to be remote, and does not anticipate, based on its past experience with this type of planned remediation, that an additional accrual related to environmental assets will be necessary.
 
30
 
 
The Company's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were $219 million, $200 million, and $173 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  These amounts were primarily for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also included $35 million in expenditures for engineering and construction in 2011.  Cash expenditures in 2012 are expected to increase primarily as a result of full year integration of 2011 acquisitions and of the expected mid-2012 acquisition of Solutia, although no assurances of the timing of completion of this acquisition or the related cash expenditures can be provided.  Other than potential capital expenditures at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee facility related to regulations associated with controlling air emissions from boilers, the Company does not currently expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities, although no assurances can be provided as to the timing or amount of any capital expenditures that may arise as a result of the completion of the expected acquisition of Solutia.  Potential capital expenditures associated with boiler air emissions remain uncertain pending adoption of final regulations, but could increase average annual capital expenditures significantly over the next five years compared to recent historical levels depending on final regulation requirements and the Company's method of addressing those requirements.
INFLATION
In recent years, general economic inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastman's costs.  The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although derivative financial instruments were utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market price fluctuations.  The volatility of raw material and energy costs will continue and the Company will continue to pursue pricing and hedging strategies and ongoing cost control initiatives to offset the effects on gross profit.  For additional information see Note 13, "Derivatives", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Exhibit 99.03 - Item 8 of this Current Report.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued amended accounting guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures with the purpose of converging the fair value measurement and disclosure guidance issued by the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board.  The guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The guidance includes amendments that clarify the intent of the application of existing fair value measurement requirements along with amendments that change a particular principle or requirement for fair value measurements and disclosures.  The Company has concluded that the new guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings, Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, or related disclosures.
In June 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance related to presentation of comprehensive income.  The standards update is intended to help financial statement users better understand the causes of an entity's change in financial position and results of operation.  It is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The amendments eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity.  The amendments require that all nonowner changes in stockholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements.  The FASB amended this guidance in December 2011 to postpone a requirement to present items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statement where the components of net income and other comprehensive income are presented and reinstate previous guidance related to such reclassifications.  Upon adoption, the Company will continue to present components of comprehensive income in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings.  Since this new guidance will affect disclosure requirements only, the Company has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 
31
 
 
In December 2011, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board jointly issued amended accounting guidance to enhance disclosure requirements for instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position as well as instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement.  It is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013.  The Company is currently assessing the impact of this guidance on its disclosures.  Since this new guidance will affect disclosure requirements only, the Company has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
OUTLOOK
The Company expects to benefit from the strength of its businesses based on modest global economic growth and aided by the full year integration of 2011 acquisitions including Sterling and Scandiflex.
 
The Company expects the volatility of market prices for raw materials and energy to continue and that the Company will continue to use pricing and hedging strategies to offset this volatility.
 
The Company expects to continue with growth initiatives in all segments, as well as to continue to explore and invest in R&D initiatives at a corporate level that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and environmentally-friendly chemistry.
 
The Company expects to complete the acquisition of Solutia mid-2012.  This acquisition is subject to approval by Solutia's shareholders, receipt of required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. 
 
Excluding the impact of the expected acquisition of Solutia, the Company expects capital spending to be between $400 million and $425 million for organic growth initiatives and maintenance.
 
Assuming mid-2012 completion of the Solutia acquisition, the Company expects full year 2012 earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to be approximately $5.30 per share, excluding acquisition-related costs and charges, asset impairments and restructuring charges, and mark-to-market pension and OPEB adjustments.
 
See "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" below.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS
The expectations under "Outlook" and certain other statements in this Current Report which are not statements of historical fact may be "forward-looking statements" as defined in, and subject to the protections of, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other federal securities laws.  These statements, and other written and oral forward-looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; expectations regarding the completion of the acquisition of Solutia including our ability to achieve the expected benefits and synergies from the acquired businesses; pending and future  legal proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs, foreign currencies and interest rates; global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other expected financial results and conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for individual assets and products, businesses and segments as well as for the whole of Eastman; cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans and activities; pension expenses and funding; credit ratings; anticipated and other future restructuring, acquisition, divestiture, and consolidation activities; cost reduction and control efforts and targets; the timing of, and benefits from, the integration of and expected business and financial performance of acquired businesses; strategic initiatives and development, production, commercialization, and acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; asset, business and product portfolio changes; and expected tax rates and net interest costs.
 
32
 
 
These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned with the specific statements.  Such assumptions are based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management expectations, plans, and strategies, economic conditions and other factors.  These plans and expectations and the underlying assumptions are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results.  There also can be no assurance regarding the timing of completion of any proposed acquisitions, and the timing or actual achievement of expected benefits from, integration plans relating to, and expected synergies from, acquired businesses.  Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized.  In addition to the factors described elsewhere in this Current Report, the following are the most significant known factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statement.  Additional factors not presently known to the Company, or that the Company does not currently believe to be material, may also cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Adverse and uncertain conditions in the global economy and the financial markets could negatively impact the Company.
While economic and financial market conditions have improved from those in 2008 and 2009, continued uncertain conditions in the global economy and global capital markets, particularly in Europe, may adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  The Company's business and operating results were affected by the impact of the recentglobal recession, including the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that  affected the global economy.  If the global economy or financial markets again deteriorate or experience significant new disruptions, the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected; in addition the Company's ability to access the credit and capital markets under attractive rates and terms could be constrained, which may negatively impact the Company's liquidity or ability to pursue certain growth initiatives.
 
Volatility in costs for strategic raw material and energy commodities or disruption in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results.
The Company is reliant on certain strategic raw material and energy commodities for its operations and utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material and energy costs.  These risk mitigation measures cannot eliminate all exposure to market fluctuations.  In addition, natural disasters, plant interruptions, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, and breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used for delivery of strategic raw material and energy commodities, could adversely impact both the cost and availability of these commodities.
The Company could be materially adversely affected by disruptions to manufacturing operations or related infrastructure.
Significant limitation of the Company's ability to manufacture products due to disruption of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales revenue, costs, results of operations, and financial condition.  Disruptions could occur due to internal factors such as computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error, or process failures; or external factors such as natural disasters, pandemic illness, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, cyber attacks, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used for delivery of supplies to the Company or for delivery of products to customers.
Loss or financial weakness of any of the Company's largest customers could adversely affect our financial results.
The Company has an extensive customer base; however, loss of, or material financial weakness of, certain of our largest customers could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced and no assurances can be made that the Company would be able to regain or replace any lost customers.
 
33
 
 
Growth initiatives may not achieve desired business or financial objectives and may require a significant use of resources in excess of those estimated or budgeted for such initiatives.
The Company continues to identify and pursue growth opportunities through both internal (or "organic") development and acquisitions and joint ventures to diversify and extend the portfolio of our businesses.  These growth opportunities include development and commercialization of new products and technologies, expansion into new markets and geographic regions, and alliances, ventures, and acquisitions that complement and extend the Company's portfolio of businesses and capabilities.  There can be no assurance that such efforts, investments, or acquisitions and alliances (including integration of acquired businesses)will result in financially successful commercialization of products or acceptance by existing or new customers or new markets or achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Company's results of operations.  There also can be no assurance regarding the timing of completion of proposed acquisitions, expected benefits of proposed acquisitions, integration plans, and expected synergies therefrom.  There also can be no assurance that capital projects for growth efforts can be completed within the time or at the costs projected due, among other things, to demand for and availability of construction materials and labor and obtaining regulatory approvals and operating permits and reaching agreement on terms of key agreements and arrangements with potential suppliers and customers.  Any such delays or cost overruns or the inability to obtain such approvals or to reach such agreements on acceptable terms could negatively affect the returns from any proposed investments and projects.
 
The pending acquisition of Solutia exposes the Company to a number of risks and uncertainties, both before and after its completion, the occurrence of any of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In connection with Eastman's agreement to complete the acquisition of Solutia, and during its pendency, the Company is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on Eastman.  These risks include, but are not limited to:
In the event the Company does complete the acquisition of Solutia, it may become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on Eastman.  These risks and uncertainties include that the Company:
 
34
 
 
Legislative or regulatory actions could increase the Company's future compliance costs.
The Company's facilities and businesses are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations.  The Company's accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based.  The amount accrued reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher costs.  Pending and proposed U.S. Federal legislation and regulation increase the likelihood that the Company's manufacturing sites will in the future be impacted by regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and energy policy, which legislation and regulation, if enacted, may result in capital expenditures, increases in costs for raw materials and energy, limitations on raw material and energy source and supply choices, and other direct compliance costs.
In addition to the foregoing most significant known risk factors to the Company, there may be other factors, not currently known to the Company, which could, in the future, materially adversely affect the Company, its business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The foregoing discussion of the most significant risk factors to the Company does not necessarily present them in order of importance.  This disclosure, including that under "Outlook" and "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors," and other forward-looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this Current Report and elsewhere from time to time, represents management's best judgment as of the date the information is given.  The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.  Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press releases) on related subjects.
 
35
 

 
Exhibit 99.03
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
36
 
MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Eastman appearing on pages 39 through 92.  Eastman has prepared these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and the statements of necessity include some amounts that are based on management's best estimates and judgments.
Eastman's accounting systems include extensive internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of its financial records and the proper safeguarding and use of its assets.  Such controls are based on established policies and procedures, are implemented by trained, skilled personnel with an appropriate segregation of duties, and are monitored through a comprehensive internal audit program.  The Company's policies and procedures prescribe that the Company and all employees are to maintain the highest ethical standards and that its business practices throughout the world are to be conducted in a manner that is above reproach.
The consolidated financial statements have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who were responsible for conducting their audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Their report is included herein.
The Board of Directors exercises its responsibility for these financial statements through its Audit Committee, which consists entirely of non-management Board members.  The independent registered public accounting firm and internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee.  The Audit Committee meets periodically with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Eastman's director of internal auditing, both privately and with management present, to discuss accounting, auditing, policies and procedures, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.
 
 
 
37
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Eastman Chemical Company
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Eastman Chemical Company and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (not separately presented herein) appearing under Item 9A in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
 
As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations and inventory costing in 2012.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 22, 2012, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and inventory costing (Note 2), for which the date is May 16, 2012
 
38
 
 
 
39
 
 
40
 
 
41
 
 
Financial Statement Presentation
The consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical Company and subsidiaries ("Eastman" or the "Company") are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted ("GAAP") in the United States and of necessity include some amounts that are based upon management estimates and judgments.  Future actual results could differ from such current estimates.  The consolidated financial statements include assets, liabilities, sales revenue, and expenses of all majority-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures in which a controlling interest is maintained.  Eastman accounts for other joint ventures and investments in minority-owned companies where it exercises significant influence on the equity basis.  Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.  Certain prior period data has been reclassified in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes to conform to current period presentation.
Beginning January 1, 2012, the Company elected to change its method of accounting for actuarial gains and losses for its pension and OPEB plans as described in Note 2, "Accounting Methodology Change for Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans".  Beginning January 1, 2012, the Company adopted amended accounting guidance related to the presentation of other comprehensive income which became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  These changes have been retrospectively applied to all periods presented.
On August 5, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.  Stockholders of record as of September 15, 2011 were issued one additional share of common stock on October 3, 2011 for each share held.  Treasury shares were treated as shares outstanding in the stock split.  All shares and per share amounts in this Current Report on Form 8-K  (this "Current Report") have been adjusted for all periods presented for the stock split.  For additional information, see Note 18, "Stockholders' Equity".
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash, time deposits, and readily marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Fair Value Measurements
The Company records recurring and non-recurring financial assets and liabilities as well as all non-financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurement at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  These fair value principles prioritize valuation inputs across three broad levels.  Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.  Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on the Company's assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value.  An asset or liability's classification within the various levels is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
 
42
 
 
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest.  The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.  The allowances are based on the number of days an individual receivable is delinquent and management's regular assessment of the financial condition of the Company's customers.  The Company considers a receivable delinquent if it is unpaid after the terms of the related invoice have expired.  The Company evaluates the allowance based on a monthly assessment of the aged receivables.  Write-offs are recorded at the time a customer receivable is deemed uncollectible.  Allowance for doubtful accounts was $8 million and $5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company does not enter into receivables of a long-term nature, also known as financing receivables, in the normal course of business.  Financing receivables were immaterial and not past due at December 31, 2011.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market.  The Company determines the cost of most raw materials, work in process, and finished goods inventories in the United States by the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method.  The cost of all other inventories, including inventories outside the United States, is determined by the average cost method, which approximates the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method.  The Company writes-down its inventories for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the carrying value of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Properties
The Company records properties at cost.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to earnings; replacements and betterments are capitalized.  When Eastman retires or otherwise disposes of assets, it removes the cost of such assets and related accumulated depreciation from the accounts.  The Company records any profit or loss on retirement or other disposition into earnings.  Asset impairments are reflected as increases in accumulated depreciation for properties that have been placed in service.  In instances when an asset has not been placed in service and is impaired, the associated costs are removed from the appropriate property accounts.
 
Depreciation
Depreciation expense is calculated based on historical cost and the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally using the straight-line method.  Estimated useful lives for buildings and building equipment generally range from 20 to 50 years.  Estimated useful lives generally ranging from 3 to 33 years are applied to machinery and equipment in the following categories: computer software (3 to 5 years); office furniture and fixtures and computer equipment (5 to 10 years); vehicles, railcars, and general machinery and equipment (5 to 20 years); and manufacturing-related improvements (20 to 33 years).  Accelerated depreciation is reported when the estimated useful life is shortened and continues to be reported in Cost of Sales.
Computer Software Costs
Capitalized software costs are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over three years, the expected useful life of such assets, beginning when the software project is substantially complete and placed in service.  Capitalized software in 2011, 2010, and 2009 was approximately $9 million, $7 million, and $8 million, respectively, and consisted of costs to internally develop computer software used by the Company.  During those same periods, approximately $8 million, $8 million, and $11 million, respectively, of previously capitalized costs were amortized.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the unamortized capitalized software costs were $20 million and $20 million, respectively.  Capitalized software costs are reflected in other noncurrent assets.
 
43
 
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Properties and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets to be held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  The review of these long-lived assets is performed at the asset or asset group level, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.  If the carrying amount is not considered to be recoverable, an analysis of fair value is triggered.  An impairment is recorded for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset or asset group over the fair value. 
 
The Company conducts its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing.  The testing of goodwill is performed at the reporting unit level, which the Company has determined to be its operating segments.  If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit including goodwill, additional steps, including an allocation of the estimated fair value to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, would be necessary to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment.  The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is considered to be impaired when the fair value, as established by appraisal or based on discounted future cash flows of certain related products, is less than their respective carrying values.
Investments
The Company held $200 million of short-term time deposits as of December 31, 2011.  These investments had staggered maturities between three and ten months at the investment date, which exceeded the three month original maturity threshold for classification as cash or cash equivalents.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained.
Investments in affiliates over which the Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest are carried on the equity basis.  Under the equity method of accounting, these investments are included in other noncurrent assets.  The Company includes its share of earnings and losses of such investments in other charges (income), net, and its share of other comprehensive income (loss) in the appropriate component of other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity.
Pension and Other Post-employment Benefit Plans
The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits.  Additionally, Eastman provides a subsidy toward life insurance, health care, and dental benefits for eligible retirees and a subsidy toward health care and dental benefits for retirees' eligible survivors.  The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Company's assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase or decrease for employees, and health care cost trends.  The cost of providing plan benefits depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation.  For additional information, see Note 14, "Retirement Plans."
Environmental Costs
The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount.  This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.
 
44
 
 
The Company also establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental and other assets it maintains.  Environmental assets include but are not limited to waste management units, such as landfills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds.  When these types of assets are constructed or installed, a reserve is established for the future costs anticipated to be associated with the closure of the site based on an expected life of the environmental assets and the applicable regulatory closure requirements.  These expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets.  Currently, the Company estimates the useful life of each individual asset up to 50 years.  If the Company changes its estimate of the asset retirement obligation costs or its estimate of the useful lives of these assets, the expenses to be charged into earnings could increase or decrease.  The Company also monitors conditional obligations and will record reserves associated with them when and to the extent that more detailed information becomes available concerning applicable retirement costs.
Accruals for environmental liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities and exclude claims for recoveries from insurance companies or other third parties.  Environmental costs are capitalized if they extend the life of the related property, increase its capacity, and/or mitigate or prevent future contamination.  The cost of operating and maintaining environmental control facilities is charged to expense.
The Company's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were $219 million, $200 million, and $173 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  These amounts were primarily for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also included $35 million in expenditures for engineering and construction in 2011.
For additional information see Note 16, "Environmental Matters" and Note 25, "Reserve Rollforwards".
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company when appropriate to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency, raw material and energy costs, and interest rates.  Such instruments are used to mitigate the risk that changes in exchange rates, raw material and energy costs, or interest rates will adversely affect the eventual dollar cash flows resulting from the hedged transactions.
The Company from time to time enters into currency option and forward contracts to hedge anticipated, but not yet committed, export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than five years and denominated in foreign currencies (principally the euro, British pound and the Japanese yen); and forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies.  To mitigate short-term fluctuations in market prices for propane, ethane, paraxylene, and natural gas (major raw material and energy used in the manufacturing process), the Company from time to time enters into option and forward contracts.  From time to time, the Company also utilizes interest rate derivative instruments, primarily swaps, to hedge the Company's exposure to movements in interest rates.
The Company's qualifying option and forward contracts are accounted for as hedges because the derivative instruments are designated and effective as hedges and reduce the Company's exposure to identified risks.  Gains and losses resulting from effective hedges of existing liabilities, firm commitments, or anticipated transactions are deferred and recognized when the offsetting gains and losses are recognized on the related hedged items and are reported as a component of operating earnings.  Derivative assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value.
The gains or losses on nonqualifying derivatives or derivatives that are not designated as hedges are marked to market and immediately recorded into earnings from continuing operations.
Deferred currency option premiums are included in the fair market value of the hedges.  The related obligation for payment is generally included in other liabilities and is paid in the period in which the options are exercised or expire.
For additional information see Note 13, "Derivatives".
 
45
 
 
Litigation and Contingent Liabilities
The Company and its operations from time to time are, and in the future may be, parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business.  The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount.  The Company expenses legal costs, including those expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred.
Revenue Recognition and Customer Incentives
The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.  Revenue for products is recognized when title and risk of loss transfer to the customer.
The Company records estimated obligations for customer programs and incentive offerings, which consist primarily of revenue or volume-based amounts that a customer must achieve over a specified period of time, as a reduction of revenue from each underlying revenue transaction as the customer progresses toward goals specified in incentive agreements.  These estimates are based on a combination of forecasts of customer sales and actual sales volume and revenues against established goals, the customer's current level of purchases, Eastman's knowledge of customer purchasing habits, and industry pricing practice.  The incentive payment rate may be variable, based upon the customer reaching higher sales volume or revenue levels over a specified period of time in order to receive an agreed upon incentive payment.
Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs
Shipping and handling fees related to sales transactions are billed to customers and are recorded as sales revenue.  Shipping and handling costs incurred are recorded in cost of sales.
Restructuring of Operations
The Company records restructuring charges incurred in connection with consolidation of operations, exited business lines, or shutdowns of specific sites that are expected to be substantially completed within twelve months.  These restructuring charges are recorded as incurred, and are associated with site closures, legal and environmental matters, demolition, contract terminations, or other costs directly related to the restructuring.  The Company records severance charges for employee separations when the separation is probable and reasonably estimable.  In the event employees are required to perform future service, the Company records severance charges ratably over the remaining service period of those employees.
 
Share-based Compensation
The Company recognizes compensation expense in the financial statements for stock options and other share-based compensation awards based upon the grant-date fair value over the substantive vesting period.  For additional information, see Note 21, "Share-Based Compensation Plans and Awards."
 
Research and Development
All costs identified as research and development ("R&D") costs are charged to expense when incurred with the exception of third-party reimbursed and government-funded research and development.  Expenses for third-party reimbursed and government-funded research and development are deferred until reimbursement is received to ensure appropriate matching of revenue and expense, provided specific criteria are met.
 
46
 
 
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes.  Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid.  The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year.  Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax bases of the Company's assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted.  Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.  Provision has been made for income taxes on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and affiliates, except for subsidiaries in which earnings are deemed to be permanently reinvested.
The Company recognizes income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrues interest related to unrecognized income tax positions which is recorded as a component of the income tax provision.
Purchase Accounting
In accounting for acquisitions, the Company estimates fair value using the exit price approach which is defined as the price that would be received if we sold an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly market.  The value of an exit price is determined from the viewpoint of all market participants as a whole and may result in the Company valuing assets at a fair value that is not reflective of our intended use of the assets.  Any amount of the purchase price paid that is in excess of the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded in the line item goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets.
Eastman has elected to change its method of accounting for actuarial gains and losses for its pension and OPEB plans to a more preferable method permitted under GAAP.  The new method recognizes actuarial gains and losses in the Company's operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur rather than amortizing them over future periods.  Eastman's management believes that this change in accounting will improve transparency of reporting of its operating results by recognizing the effects of economic and interest rate trends on pension and OPEB plan investments and assumptions in the year these actuarial gains and losses are incurred.  Historically, Eastman has recognized pension and OPEB plans actuarial gains and losses annually in its Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and Loss as a component of Stockholders' Equity, and then amortized these gains and losses each period in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings.  The expected return on assets component of Eastman's pension expense has historically been calculated using a five-year smoothing of asset gains and losses, and the gain or loss component of pension and OPEB plan expense has historically been based on amortization of actuarial gains and losses that exceed 10 percent of the greater of plan assets or projected benefit obligations over the average future service period of active employees.  Under the new method of accounting, these gains and losses are now measured annually at the plans' December 31 measurement date and recorded as a mark-to-market ("MTM") adjustment during the fourth quarter of each year, and any quarters in which an interim remeasurement is triggered.  This methodology is preferable under GAAP since it aligns more closely with fair value principles and does not delay the recognition of gains and losses into future periods.  The new method has been retrospectively applied to the financial results of all periods presented.
Under the new method of accounting, Eastman's pension and OPEB plan costs consist of two elements: 1) ongoing costs recognized quarterly, which are comprised of service and interest costs, expected returns on plan assets, and amortization of prior service credits; and 2) MTM gains and losses recognized annually, in the fourth quarter of each year, resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions and discount rates and the differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets.  Any interim remeasurements triggered by a curtailment, settlement, or significant plan change are now recognized as an MTM adjustment in the quarter in which such remeasurement event occurs.
 
47
 
 
Eastman's operating segment results follow internal management reporting, which is used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.  Historically, total pension and OPEB plan costs have been allocated to each segment.  In conjunction with the change in accounting principle, the service cost, which represents the benefits earned by active employees during the period, and amortization of prior service credits continue to be allocated to each segment.  Interest costs, expected return on assets, and the MTM adjustment (including any interim remeasurements) for actuarial gains and losses are now included in corporate expense and not allocated to segments.  Management believes this change in expense allocation better reflects the operating results of each business.  This change has been retrospectively applied to the financial results of all periods presented.
Management has also elected to change its method of accounting for certain costs included in inventory.  Effective in first quarter 2012, the portion of pension and OPEB costs attributable to former employees (inactives) is no longer a component of inventoriable costs and instead is charged directly to the cost of sales line item as a period cost.  Applying this change in inventory retrospectively did not have a material impact on previously reported inventory, cost of sales, or financial results in any prior period and prior period results have not been retrospectively adjusted for this change in accounting for certain related costs included in inventory. 
 
48
 
 
Following are the changes to financial statement line items as a result of the accounting methodology change for the periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements:
 
 
49
 
 
 
50
 
 
 
51
 
 
52
 
Sterling Chemicals, Inc. and
Scandiflex do Brasil S.A. Indstrias Qumicas
During third quarter 2011, the Company completed two acquisitions in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment.  On August 9, 2011, Eastman acquired Sterling Chemicals, Inc. ("Sterling"), a single site North American petrochemical producer, to produce non-phthalate plasticizers, including Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers, and acetic acid.  On September 1, 2011, Eastman acquired Scandiflex do Brasil S.A. Indstrias Qumicas ("Scandiflex"), a manufacturer of plasticizers located in So Paulo, Brazil.  The total purchase price for both acquisitions was $133 million, including a post-closing payment of $10 million to the previous shareholders of Scandiflex.  Transaction costs of $4 million associated with these acquisitions were expensed as incurred and are included in the "Selling, general and administrative expenses" line item in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings.  The table below shows the final fair value purchase price allocation for these acquisitions:
 
 
53
 
 
Acquired intangible assets primarily relate to perpetual air emission credits which management has assigned indefinite lives.  Goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, was primarily for the Scandiflex acquisition and was attributed to the benefits of access to Brazilian markets and also the synergies between the acquired companies and Eastman.  Long-term liabilities primarily include Sterling pension and other postretirement welfare plan obligations, as well as Scandiflex contingent liabilities for environmental and other contingencies.  In connection with the Sterling acquisition, Sterling's debt was repaid at closing and therefore not included in the above purchase price allocation.
Other 2011 Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures
On July 1, 2011, the Company acquired Dynaloy, LLC ("Dynaloy"), a producer of formulated solvents.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and is reported in the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment.  Dynaloy adds materials science capabilities that are expected to complement growth of the CASPI segment's electronic materials product line.  On November 2, 2011, the Company acquired TetraVitae Bioscience, Inc., a developer of renewable chemicals, including bio-based butanol and acetone.  Also in 2011, the Company entered into a joint venture for a 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in China, expected to be operational in 2013.
Genovique Specialties Corporation
On April 30, 2010, Eastman completed the stock purchase of Genovique Specialties Corporation ("Genovique"), which has been accounted for as a business combination.  The acquired business was a global producer of specialty plasticizers, benzoic acid, and sodium benzoate.  This acquisition included Genovique's manufacturing operations in Kohtla-Jrve, Estonia, Chestertown, Maryland, and a joint venture in Wuhan, China.  Genovique's benzoate ester plasticizers were a strategic addition to Eastman's existing general-purpose and specialty non-phthalate plasticizers.  The acquisition added differentiated, sustainably-advantaged products to Eastman's PCI segment and enhances the Company's diversification into emerging geographic regions.
The total purchase price was approximately $160 million, including assumed debt of $5 million.  Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were expensed as incurred.  The table below shows the final fair value purchase price allocation for the Genovique acquisition:
Acquired intangible assets consist of $44 million in established customer relationships, $14 million in trade names, and $1 million in developed technology.  The customer relationships and developed technology intangible assets have remaining useful lives of 16 and 7 years, respectively.  Trade names have been determined to have an indefinite life.  Goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, was attributed to the synergies between the acquired company and Eastman.
 
54
 
 
Korean Acetate Tow Facility
On March 22, 2010, Eastman Fibers Korea Limited ("EFKL") completed the purchase of the acetate tow facility in Ulsan, Korea from SK Chemicals Co., Ltd. ("SK"), which has been accounted for as a business combination.  EFKL is a venture between the Company and SK, in which the Company has controlling ownership and operates the facility.  This acquisition established acetate tow manufacturing capacity for the Company in Asia and supports projected long term sales growth for acetate tow in the region.
The fair value of total consideration was $111 million, which was paid in installments beginning first quarter 2009 and completed second quarter 2010.  The Company has determined the final fair value of the acquired assets to be as follows: property, plant, and equipment of $101 million, inventory of $5 million, and technology of $5 million.
Pro forma financial information for the acquisitions has not been presented due to the immaterial financial impact to the Company.
On January 31, 2011, the Company completed the sale of the polyethylene terephthalate ("PET") business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment for $615 million and recognized a gain of approximately $30 million, net of tax.  The Company contracted with the buyer for transition services to supply certain raw materials and services for a period of less than one year.  Transition supply agreement revenues of approximately $220 million, relating to raw materials, were more than offset by costs and reported net in cost of sales.  The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment and therefore the segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are not included in results from continuing operations.  The assets and liabilities of this business were reclassified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2010.
Operating results of the discontinued operations which were formerly included in the Performance Polymers segment are summarized below:
 
 
55
 
 
Assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2010 are summarized below:
 
Inventories valued on the LIFO method were approximately 70 percent of total inventories for both 2011 and 2010.
 
 
56
 
 
 
Cumulative construction-period interest of $148 million and $177 million, reduced by accumulated depreciation of $84 million and $106 million, is included in net properties at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Interest capitalized during 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $9 million, $3 million, and $14 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense related to continuing operations was $261 million, $238 million, and $227 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill follow:
As a result of the acquisitions during third quarter 2011, primarily Sterling and Scandiflex, and the purchase of Genovique during second quarter 2010, the Company recorded goodwill of $35 million and $63 million, respectively.  The remaining goodwill primarily consists of goodwill in the CASPI segment.
Included in the reported balance for goodwill are accumulated impairment losses of $44 million at December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009.
Intangible assets include developed technology, customer lists, patents and patent licenses, and trademarks with a net book value of $101 million as of December 31, 2011 and $92 million as of December 31, 2010.  As a result of the acquisitions during third quarter 2011, primarily Sterling and Dynaloy, the Company recorded $22 million in intangible assets related to perpetual air emission credits and customer relationships.  As a result of the Genovique acquisition during second quarter 2010, the Company recorded $59 million in customer relationships, technology, and other intangible assets.  During fourth quarter 2010, the Company recognized an $8 million intangible asset impairment resulting from an environmental regulatory change impacting air emission credits remaining from the previously discontinued Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project.  Intangible assets are included in other noncurrent assets.
 
 
57
 
 
Amortization expense of definite-lived intangible assets related to continuing operations was $4 million and $2 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively.  There was no amortization expense related to continuing operations for 2009.
See Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures", for further details regarding the acquisitions of Genovique, Sterling, Scandiflex, and Dynaloy.
 
 
Eastman's net investment in the joint venture at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $28 million and $32 million, respectively, which was comprised of the recognized portion of the venture's accumulated deficits, long-term amounts owed to Primester, and a line of credit from Eastman to Primester.  Such amounts are included in other noncurrent assets.  
Eastman has a 50 percent interest in and serves as the operating partner in Primester, a joint venture which manufactures cellulose acetate at Eastman's Kingsport, Tennessee plant.  This investment is accounted for under the equity method.  
Eastman owns 50 percent or less interest in other joint ventures which are accounted for under the equity method and included in other noncurrent assets.  These include a 50 percent interest in a joint venture that has a manufacturing facility in Nanjing, China.  The Nanjing facility produces Eastotac hydrocarbon tackifying resins for pressure-sensitive adhesives, caulks, and sealants.  In fourth quarter 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with 50 percent interest for the manufacture of compounded cellulose diacetate ("CDA") in Shenzhen, China.  CDA is a bio-derived material, which is used in various injection molded applications, including but not limited to ophthalmic frames, tool handles and other end use products.  In 2011, the Company entered into a joint venture for a 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in China, expected to be operational in mid-2013.  Eastman has 45 percent ownership of the joint venture and expects to provide 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the joint venture from the Company's manufacturing facility in Kingsport.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company's investment in these joint ventures was approximately $34 million and $6 million, respectively.
TM
The current portion of post-employment obligations is an estimate of 2012 payments.
 
 
58
 
 
Components of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and the provision (benefit) for U.S. and other income taxes from continuing operations follow:
The following represents the deferred tax charge (benefit) recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity.
Total income tax expense (benefit) included in the consolidated financial statements was composed of the following:
 
 
59
 
 
Differences between the provision for income taxes on earnings from continuing operations and income taxes computed using the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate follow:
The 2011 effective tax rate of 31 percent reflects an $8 million tax benefit recognized due to an increased level of capital investment which qualified for additional state tax credits.
The 2010 effective tax rate of 33 percent reflected a $9 million tax charge associated with a nondeductible, early distribution under the executive deferred compensation plan of previously earned compensation as a result of certain participants electing early withdrawal.
The 2009 effective tax rate of 40 percent reflected an $11 million tax charge associated with the recapture of gasification investment tax credits and a $7 million tax charge associated with a change in accounting method for tax purposes to accelerate timing of deductions for manufacturing repairs expense and a $5 million tax benefit from the reversal of tax reserves due to the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations.
 
 
60
 
 
The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities follow:
Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the United States, considered to be reinvested indefinitely, totaled $436 million at December 31, 2011.  It is not practicable to determine the deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to those unremitted earnings.
For certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries, income and losses directly flow through to taxable income in the United States.  These entities are also subject to taxation in the foreign tax jurisdictions.  Net operating loss carryforwards exist to offset future taxable income in foreign tax jurisdictions and valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred related tax assets if it is more likely than not that this benefit will not be realized.  Changes in the estimated realizable amount of deferred tax assets associated with net operating losses for these entities could result in changes in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance in the foreign tax jurisdiction.  At the same time, because these entities are also subject to tax in the United States, a deferred tax liability for the expected future taxable income will be established concurrently.  Therefore, the impact of any reversal of valuation allowances on consolidated income tax expense will only be to the extent that there are differences between the United States statutory tax rate and the tax rate in the foreign jurisdiction.  A valuation allowance of $26 million at December 31, 2011 has been provided against the deferred tax asset resulting from these operating loss carryforwards.
At December 31, 2011, foreign net operating loss carryforwards totaled $205 million.  Of this total, $55 million will expire in 3 to 15 years; and $150 million have no expiration date.
 
61
 
 
Amounts due to and from tax authorities as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position:
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, $10 million, $9 million, and $6 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits would, if recognized, impact the Company's effective tax rate.
Interest, net of tax, related to unrecognized tax benefits is recorded as a component of income tax expense.  As of both January 1, 2011 and 2010, the Company had accrued a liability of approximately $1 million for interest, net of tax and had no accrual for tax penalties.  During 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized no income for interest, net of tax and no penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefits.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had accrued balances of $1 million for interest, net of tax benefit and no penalties.
The Company or one of its subsidiaries files U.S. federal tax returns and tax returns in various states and foreign jurisdictions.  With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2008.
 
62
 
 
 
 
In December 2011, the Company entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility") expiring December 2016.  The Credit Facility replaces, and has terms substantially similar to, the $700 million revolving credit agreement entered into in April 2006 (the "Prior Credit Facility") which was terminated concurrently with the entry into the Credit Facility.  Borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates and a commitment fee is paid on the total unused commitment.  At December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility, and at December 31, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes.  Accordingly, any outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce capacity for borrowings available under the Credit Facility.  Given the expiration date of the Credit Facility, any commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long-term borrowings because the Company has the ability and intent to refinance such borrowings on a long-term basis.
At December 31, 2011, the Company also had a $200 million line of credit under its annually renewable accounts receivable securitization agreement ("A/R Facility").  The A/R Facility was renewed in July 2011.  Borrowings under the A/R Facility are subject to interest rates based on a spread over the lender's borrowing costs, and the Company pays a fee to maintain availability of the A/R Facility.  At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the A/R Facility.  See Note 15, "Commitments", for further details regarding the A/R Facility.
The Credit Facility and the A/R Facility contain a number of customary covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios.  The Company was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods presented.  In addition, the entire amount of these facilities was available without violating applicable covenants as of December 31, 2011.
On December 10, 2010, the Company issued 3% notes due 2015 in the principal amount of $250 million and 4.5% notes due 2021 in the principal amount of $250 million.  Proceeds from the sales of notes, net of transaction fees, were $496 million.  Proceeds were used together with cash on hand to pay for notes purchased in a tender offer for $500 million of outstanding long-term bonds.  See Note 12, "Early Debt Extinguishment Costs", for further information regarding the early extinguishment of this debt.
 
63
 
 
Fair Value of Borrowings
The fair value for fixed-rate borrowings is based on current interest rates for comparable securities.  The Company's floating-rate borrowings approximate fair value.
In fourth quarter 2010, the Company completed the early repayment of $500 million of its outstanding long-term debt securities.  Total consideration was $617 million and was comprised of $500 million for the face amount of the securities and $117 million for the early redemption premium.  The early repayment resulted in a charge of $115 million for early debt extinguishment costs attributable to the early redemption premium, offset by hedging gains related to the debt restructure.  The amounts paid to retire the securities, including the $117 million early redemption premium, are classified as financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  The book value of the purchased debt was $501 million, as follows:
Hedging Programs
The Company is exposed to market risk, such as changes in currency exchange rates, raw material and energy costs, and interest rates.  The Company uses various derivative financial instruments when appropriate pursuant to the Company's hedging policies to mitigate these market risk factors and their effect on the cash flows of the underlying transactions.  Designation is performed on a specific exposure basis to support hedge accounting.  The changes in fair value of these hedging instruments are offset in part or in whole by corresponding changes in the cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged.  The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Currency Rate Hedging
 
The Company manufactures and sells its products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, is exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of natural offsets.  To manage the remaining exposure, the Company enters into currency options and forwards to hedge probable anticipated, but not yet committed, export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than five years and denominated in foreign currencies (principally the euro, British pound, and Japanese yen) and forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies.  These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges.  The mark-to-market gains or losses on qualifying hedges are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the extent effective, and reclassified into sales in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
 
64
 
 
Raw Material and Energy Hedging
Raw material and energy sources used by the Company are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, economic variables and other unpredictable factors.  To mitigate short-term fluctuations in market prices for propane, ethane, paraxylene, and natural gas, the Company enters into option and forward contracts.  These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges.  The mark-to-market gains or losses on qualifying hedges are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the extent effective, and reclassified into cost of sales in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Interest Rate Hedging
 
The Company's policy is to manage interest expense using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.  To manage this mix effectively, the Company from time to time enters into interest rate swaps in which the Company agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional principal amount.  These swaps are designated as hedges of the fair value of the underlying debt obligations and the interest rate differential is reflected as an adjustment to interest expense over the life of the swaps.  As these instruments are 100 percent effective, there is no impact on earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.
From time to time, the Company also utilizes interest rate derivative instruments, primarily forwards, to hedge the Company's exposure to movements in interest rates prior to anticipated debt offerings.  These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges and are typically 100 percent effective.  As a result, there is no current impact on earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.
The mark-to-market gains or losses on these hedges are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the extent effective, and are reclassified into interest expense over the term of the related debt instruments.
Fair Value Hedges
Fair value hedges are defined as derivative or non-derivative instruments designated as and used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk.  For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current earnings.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no fair value hedges.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had fair value hedges in the form of interest rate swaps with a total notional value of $146 million.
Cash Flow Hedges
Cash flow hedges are derivative instruments designated as and used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk.  For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income, net of income taxes and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivatives representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings.
As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amounts of the Company's foreign exchange forward and option contracts were 270 million (approximately $350 million equivalent) and 13.7 billion (approximately $185 million equivalent), respectively, the total notional volume hedged for energy was approximately 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units), and the total notional volume hedged for feedstock was approximately 2 million barrels.  Additionally, the total notional value of the interest rate swaps for the future issuance of debt ("forward starting interest rate swaps") was $200 million.
 
65
 
As of December 31, 2010, the total notional amounts of the Company's foreign exchange forward and option contracts were 354 million (approximately $475 million equivalent) and 12.8 billion (approximately $160 million equivalent), respectively, the total notional volume hedged for energy was approximately 4 million mmbtu, and the total notional volume hedged for feedstock was approximately 1 million barrels.  Additionally, at December 31, 2010, the total notional value of the forward starting interest rate swaps was $300 million.
Fair Value Measurements
For additional information on fair value measurement,see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies".
 
The Company has determined that its derivative assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were classified within level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  The following chart shows the financial assets and liabilities valued on a recurring basis and their location in the Statement of Financial Position.  The Company had no nonqualifying derivatives or derivatives that are not designated as hedges.
 
 
The fair value of the Company's derivative assets is based on estimates using standard pricing models.  These standard pricing models use inputs which are derived from or corroborated by observable market data such as interest rate yield curves and currency spot and forward rates.  The fair value of commodity contracts is derived using forward curves supplied by an industry recognized and unrelated third party.  In addition, on an ongoing basis, the Company tests a subset of its valuations against valuations received from the transaction's counterparty to validate the accuracy of its standard pricing models.  Counterparties to these derivative contracts are highly rated financial institutions which the Company believes carry only a minimal risk of nonperformance.
 
66
 
Derivatives' Hedging Relationships
For twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, there was no material ineffectiveness with regard to the Company's qualifying hedges.
Hedging Summary
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, pre-tax monetized positions and mark-to-market gains and losses from raw materials and energy, currency, and certain interest rate hedges that were included in accumulated other comprehensive income totaled approximately $4 million in losses and $28 million in gains, respectively.  Included in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2011 are losses associated with forward starting interest rate swaps monetized in fourth quarter 2011 and expected to continue to be fully effective with debt to be issued in the near-term.  In 2011, losses on forward starting interest rate swaps and commodity contracts more than offset gains on foreign exchange contracts.  In 2010, gains included foreign exchange contracts and forward starting interest rate swaps.  If realized, approximately $22 million in pre-tax gains will be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months including foreign exchange contracts monetized and prospectively dedesignated in fourth quarter 2011.  Ineffective portions of hedges are immediately recognized in cost of sales or other charges (income), net.  There were no material gains or losses related to the ineffective portion of hedges recognized in 2011 or 2010.
The gains or losses on nonqualifying derivatives or derivatives that are not designated as hedges are marked to market in the line item "Other charges (income), net" of the Statements of Earnings, and, in all periods presented, represent foreign exchange derivatives denominated in multiple currencies.  The Company recognized net gains of approximately $1 million and $7 million on nonqualifying derivatives during 2011 and 2010, respectively.
As described in more detail below, Eastman offers various postretirement benefits to its employees.
 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS
The Company sponsors a defined contribution employee stock ownership plan (the "ESOP"), which is a component of the Eastman Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("EIP/ESOP"), a plan under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Eastman anticipates that it will make a contribution to the EIP/ESOP for the 2011 plan year for substantially all U.S. employees equal to 5 percent of their eligible compensation for that year.  Employees may allocate contributions to other investment funds within the EIP from the ESOP at any time without restrictions.  Allocated shares in the ESOP totaled 2,525,114; 2,763,982; and 3,017,424 shares as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Dividends on shares held by the EIP/ESOP are charged to retained earnings.  All shares held by the EIP/ESOP are treated as outstanding in computing earnings per share.
 
67
 
 
In July 2006, the Company amended its EIP/ESOP to provide a Company match of 50 percent of the first 7 percent of an employee's compensation contributed to the plan for employees who are hired on or after January 1, 2007.  Employees who are hired on or after January 1, 2007, are also eligible for the contribution to the ESOP as described above.
Charges for domestic contributions to the EIP/ESOP were $38 million, $35 million, and $34 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS AND POSTRETIREMENT WELFARE PLANS
Pension Plans:
Eastman maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits.
Effective January 1, 2000, the Company's Eastman Retirement Assistance Plan, a U.S. defined benefit pension plan, was amended.  Employees' accrued pension benefits earned prior to January 1, 2000 are calculated based on previous plan provisions using the employee's age, years of service, and final average compensation as defined in the plans.  The amended plan uses a pension equity formula to calculate an employee's retirement benefits from January 1, 2000 forward.  Benefits payable will be the combined pre-2000 and post-1999 benefits.  Employees hired on or after January 1, 2007 are not eligible to participate in Eastman's U.S. defined benefit pension plans.
In August 2011, in connection with its acquisition of Sterling, the Company assumed Sterling's U.S. defined benefit pension plan.  Prior to the acquisition, the plan had been closed to new participants and was no longer accruing additional benefits.  For more information, see Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures".
Benefits are paid to employees from trust funds.  Contributions to the trust funds are made as permitted by laws and regulations.  The pension trust fund does not directly own any of the Company's common stock.
Pension coverage for employees of Eastman's non-U.S. operations is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans.  The Company systematically provides for obligations under such plans by depositing funds with trustees, under insurance policies, or by book reserves.
Postretirement Welfare Plans:
Eastman provides a subsidy toward life insurance, health care, and dental benefits for eligible retirees hired prior to January 1, 2007, and a subsidy toward health care and dental benefits for retirees' eligible survivors.  In general, Eastman provides those benefits to retirees eligible under the Company's U.S. plans.  Similar benefits are also made available to retirees of Holston Defense Corporation ("HDC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that, prior to January 1, 1999, operated a government-owned ammunition plant.
Eligible employees hired on or after January 1, 2007 have access to postretirement health care benefits, but Eastman does not provide a subsidy toward the premium cost of postretirement benefits for those employees.  A few of the Company's non-U.S. operations have supplemental health benefit plans for certain retirees, the cost of which is not significant to the Company.
In August 2011, in connection with its acquisition of Sterling, the Company assumed Sterling's postretirement welfare plan.  For more information, see Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures".
Below is a summary balance sheet of the change in plan assets during 2011 and 2010, the funded status of the plans, amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, and a summary of amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
68
 
 
Summary Balance Sheet
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation basis for all defined benefit pension plans at the end of 2011 and 2010 was $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.
The change in projected benefit obligation and change in net assets in 2011 reflects the impact on the U.S. defined benefit pension plan and the other postretirement welfare plan of the Sterling acquisition described in Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures".
 
69
 
 
Components of net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
Net periodic benefit cost in 2011 reflects the impact on the U.S. defined benefit pension plan and the other postretirement welfare plan of the Sterling acquisition described in Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures".
The estimated net prior service credit for the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic cost in 2012 is $4 million.  The estimated net prior service credit for the postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic cost in 2012 is $20 million.
The assumptions used to develop the projected benefit obligation for the Company's significant U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and U. S. postretirement welfare plans are provided in the following tables.
 
70
 
 
An eight percent rate of increase in per capita cost of covered health care benefits is assumed for 2012.  The rate is assumed to decrease gradually to five percent in 2018 and remain at that level thereafter.  A one percent increase or decrease in health care cost trend would have had no material impact on the 2011 service and interest costs or the 2011 benefit obligation, because the Company's contributions for benefits are fixed.
The fair value of plan assets for the domestic pension plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1,003 million and $925 million, respectively, while the fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 for non-U.S. pension plans was $276 million and $253 million, respectively.  At December 31, 2011, the expected weighted-average long-term rate of return on the U.S. pension plans assets was 8.44 percent.  At December 31, 2010, the expected long-term rate of return on the U.S. pension plan assets was 8.75 percent.  The expected weighted-average long-term rate of return on non-U.S. pension plans assets was 6.44 percent and 6.40 percent at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
71
 
 
The following charts reflect the fair value of the defined pension plans assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
The Company valued assets with unobservable inputs (Level 3), specifically its alternative investments, investments in private equity and investments in real estate and other funds under the practical expedient method.  The practical expedient method allows reporting entities to use the most recently reported net asset value ("NAV") of qualifying investment companies provided it is not probable that the investment will be sold by the reporting entity at an amount different from the most recently reported NAV.
(1)
 
Primarily consists of natural resource and energy related limited partnership investments.
 
72
 
 
The target allocation for the Company's U.S. pension plans for 2012 and the asset allocation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category, are as follows:
Primarily consists of private equity and natural resource and energy related limited partnership investments.
(1)
 
The target allocation for the Company's non-U.S. pension plans for 2012 and the asset allocation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category, are as follows:
Primarily consists of an annuity contract and alternative investments.
(1)
The Company's investment strategy for its defined benefit pension plans is to maximize long-term rate of return on plan assets within an acceptable level of risk in order to minimize the cost of providing pension benefits.  A periodic asset/liability study is conducted in order to assist in the determination and, if necessary, modification of the appropriate long-term investment policy for the plan.  The investment policy establishes a target allocation range for each asset class and the fund is managed within those ranges.  The plans use a number of investment approaches including investments in equity, real estate, and fixed income funds in which the underlying securities are marketable in order to achieve this target allocation.  The U.S. plan also invests in private equity and other funds.  Diversification is created through investment across various asset classes, geographies, fund managers and individual securities.  This investment process provides for a well-diversified portfolio with no significant concentration of risk.  The investment process is monitored by an investment committee comprised of various senior executives from within Eastman.
In August 2011, in connection with its acquisition of Sterling, the Company assumed Sterling's defined benefit pension plan.  The investment strategy with respect to Sterling's defined benefit pension assets is to invest the assets in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  The long-term primary objectives for the pension assets are to: (1) provide for a reasonable amount of long-term growth of capital, with prudent exposure to risk, and protect the assets from erosion; (2) provide investment results that meet or exceed the plan's actuarially assumed long-term rate of return; and (3) move to matching the duration of the liabilities and assets of the plan to reduce potential risk.
The expected rate of return for all plans was determined primarily by modeling the expected long-term rates of return for the categories of investments held by the plans and the targeted allocation percentage against various potential economic scenarios.
The Company funded its U.S. defined benefit pension plans in the amount of $102 million in 2011 and $35 million in 2010.
 
73
 
 
Benefits expected to be paid from pension plans and benefits, net of participant contributions, expected to be paid for postretirement welfare obligations are as follows:
Purchase Obligations and Lease Commitments
The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2011 totaling approximately $1.4 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business.  The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable, and month-to-month operating leases totaling $105 million over a period of several years.  Of the total lease commitments, approximately 10 percent relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 60 percent relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities, and land; and approximately 30 percent relate to railcars.
 
Rental expense, net of sublease income, was approximately $48 million, $39 million, and $33 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
The obligations described above are summarized in the following table:
 
74
 
 
Accounts Receivable Securitization Program 
Effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted amended accounting guidance for transfers of financial assets which impacts the financial statement presentation for activity under the Company's $200 million accounts receivable securitization program.  Beginning for periods after December 31, 2009, transfers of receivables interests that were previously treated as sold and removed from the balance sheet will be included in trade receivables, net and reflected as secured borrowings on the balance sheet.  The Company's Statement of Financial Position at December 30, 2010 reflects an increase in trade receivables, $200 million of which was transferred at December 31, 2009 under the securitization program and reduced cash flows from operating activities by that amount for 2010.  As a result of the adoption of this accounting guidance, any amounts drawn on this accounts receivable securitization program would be accounted for as secured borrowings and disclosed in Note 11, "Borrowings".
Guarantees
The Company has operating leases with terms that require the Company to guarantee a portion of the residual value of the leased assets upon termination of the lease as well as other guarantees.   Disclosures about each group of similar guarantees are provided below.
Residual Value Guarantees
If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it has guaranteed a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets.  Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2011 totaled $184 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars and company aircraft.  Leases with guarantee amounts totaling $139 million and $45 million will expire in 2012 and 2016 and beyond, respectively. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that the likelihood of a material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.
Other Guarantees
Guarantees and claims also arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with joint venture partners, suppliers, customers, and other parties when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others, if specified triggering events occur.  Non-performance under a contract could trigger an obligation of the Company.  The Company's current other guarantees include guarantees relating primarily to intellectual property, environmental matters, and other indemnifications and have arisen through the normal course of business.  The ultimate effect on future financial results is not subject to reasonable estimation because considerable uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of these claims, if they were to occur.  These other guarantees have terms of between 1 and 15 years with maximum potential future payments of approximately $80 million in the aggregate, with none of these guarantees individually significant to the Company's operating results, financial position, or liquidity.  The Company's current expectation is that future payment or performance related to non-performance under other guarantees is considered remote.
Variable Interest Entities
The accounting guidance on consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs") is effective for all VIEs or potential VIEs the Company is involved with on or after January 1, 2010.  This guidance amends the evaluation criteria to identify which entity has a controlling financial interest of a variable interest entity and requires ongoing reassessments.  The Company has evaluated its material contractual relationships under this guidance and has concluded that the entities involved in these relationships are not VIEs or, in the case of Primester, a joint venture that manufactures cellulose acetate at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee plant, the Company has shared control of the VIE.  As such, the Company is not required to consolidate these entities.
 
75
 
 
 
Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes, the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are regulated by various governmental agencies.  In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP"), by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs.  In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure and postclosure under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Reserves for environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastman's policies described in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies."  Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, management does not believe that the Company's liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  The Company's total reserve for environmental contingencies was $39 million and $40 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  This reserve includes $6 million related to previously closed and impaired sites, as well as sites that have been divested but for which the Company retains the environmental liability related to these sites.
Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $11 million to the maximum of $29 million at December 31, 2011.  The best estimate accrued to date over the facilities' estimated useful lives for asset retirement obligation costs is $28 million at December 31, 2011.
During third quarter 2011, as described in Note 3, "Acquisitions and Investments in Joint Ventures" the Company completed the acquisitions of Sterling and Scandiflex, resulting in a $4 million increase to the reserve for environmental contingencies consisting of an additional $1 million in asset retirement obligation costs and a minimum or best estimate of $3 million to a maximum of $4 million of estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation.
The Company completed the sale of the PET business on January 31, 2011.  As a result, $3 million in asset retirement obligation costs were divested.
For additional information, see Note 25, "Reserve Rollforwards."
General
From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to, or targets of, lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are being handled and defended in the ordinary course of business.  While the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, it does not believe, based upon currently available facts, that the ultimate resolution of any such pending matters will have a material adverse effect on its overall financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
 
76
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the changes in stockholders' equity for 2009, 2010, and 2011 is provided below:
The Company is authorized to issue 400 million shares of all classes of stock, of which 50 million may be preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 350 million may be common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  The Company declared dividends per share of $0.990 in 2011, $0.895 in 2010, and $0.880 in 2009.
 
77
 
 
On August 5, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock.  The stock split was in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend and was distributed on October 3, 2011 to stockholders of record as of September 15, 2011.  Stockholders were issued one additional share for each share owned.  Treasury shares were treated as shares outstanding in the stock split.  All shares and per share amounts in this Current Report have been adjusted for all periods presented for the stock split.
 
The Company established a benefit security trust in 1997 to provide a degree of financial security for unfunded obligations under certain unfunded plans and contributed to the trust a warrant to purchase up to 6 million shares of common stock of the Company for par value.  The warrant, which remains outstanding, is exercisable by the trustee if the Company does not meet certain funding obligations, which obligations would be triggered by certain occurrences, including a change in control or potential change in control, as defined, or failure by the Company to meet its payment obligations under certain covered unfunded plans.  Such warrant is excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the conditions upon which the warrant becomes exercisable have not been met.
The additions to paid-in capital for 2011, 2010, and 2009 are primarily the result of employee stock option exercises and compensation expense of equity awards.
'In August 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized $300 million for repurchase of the Company's outstanding common stock.  The Company completed all repurchases under the $300 million repurchase authorization in June 2011, acquiring a total of 7.1 million shares.  In February 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $300 million of the Company's outstanding common stock at such times, in such amounts, and on such terms, as determined to be in the best interests of the Company.  As of December 31, 2011, a total of 4,757,639 shares have been repurchased under this authorization for a total of approximately $202 million.  During 2011, the Company repurchased 7,258,031 shares of common stock for approximately $316 million under the current and a previous stock repurchase authorization.
In October 2007, the Company
s Board of Directors authorized $700 million for repurchase of the Company's outstanding common stock.  The Company completed all repurchases under the $700 million repurchase authorization in November 2010, acquiring a total of 22.4 million shares.  
The Company's charitable foundation held 88,456 shares of the Company's common stock at December 31, 2011, 152,796 shares at December 31, 2010 and 165,348 shares at December 31, 2009 which are reflected in treasury stock.
For 2011, 2010, and 2009, the weighted average number of common shares outstanding used to compute basic earnings per share was 139.7 million, 144.2 million, and 145.0 million, respectively, and for diluted earnings per share was 143.1 million, 147.8 million, and 146.8 million, respectively, reflecting the effect of dilutive share-based equity awards outstanding.  Stock options excluded from the 2011, 2010, and 2009 calculation of diluted earnings per share were 408,850; 486,300; and 6,996,978, respectively, because the total market value of option exercises for these awards was less than the total cash proceeds that would be received from these exercises.
 
78
 
 
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAX
Amounts of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented net of applicable taxes.  The Company records deferred income taxes on the cumulative translation adjustment related to branch operations and other entities included in the Company's consolidated U.S. tax return.  No deferred income taxes are provided on the cumulative translation adjustment of subsidiaries outside the United States, as such cumulative translation adjustment is considered to be a component of permanently invested, unremitted earnings of these foreign subsidiaries.
Asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net, totaled $8 million gain, $29 million charge, and $196 million charge in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net, in 2011 consisted primarily of a $15 million gain from the sale of the previously impaired methanol and ammonia assets related to the terminated Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and $7 million for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling.  Asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net, totaled $29 million during 2010 primarily related to severance and pension curtailment resulting from a voluntary separation program.  Asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net, totaled $196 million during 2009, consisting primarily of $179 million in asset impairments related to the discontinuance of the Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and $19 million, net, in charges for severance resulting from a reduction in force.
 
2011
During 2011, the Company recorded $8 million net gain in asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net.  A gain of $15 million was recognized from the sale of the previously impaired methanol and ammonia assets related to the terminated Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project and restructuring charges of $7 million primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling.
 
79
 
 
2010
During 2010, the Company recorded $29 million in asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains), net, consisting primarily of severance, pension curtailment, and an intangible asset impairment.  Severance charges of $18 million included $15 million for the previously announced voluntary separation program in fourth quarter 2010 of approximately 175 employees and $3 million primarily for severance associated with the acquisition and integration of Genovique in second quarter 2010.  Restructuring charges of $2 million for pension curtailment also related to the previously announced voluntary separation program in fourth quarter 2010.  Due to an environmental regulatory change during fourth quarter 2010 impacting air emission credits remaining from the previously discontinued Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment of $8 million.
2009
During fourth quarter 2009, the Company discontinued the Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification project, resulting in asset impairments of $179 million, reducing the project's book value to $56 million for assets the Company expected to recover.  For the purpose of calculating an impairment, the fair value of these assets was determined using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs as defined in the fair value hierarchy.  Of the $56 million, $8 million related to certain environmental credits classified in Level 2, using observable prices for similar assets, and $48 million related to land and tangible assets is classified in Level 3, based on various inputs, including real estate appraisals and unobservable market information for similar assets based on management's experience, including the evaluation of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing similar assets.For additional information on fair value measurement,see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies".
 
 
In first quarter 2009, the Company announced a reduction in force of approximately 250 employees, resulting in restructuring charges of $19 million, net for related severance.
The following table summarizes the changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, the non-cash reductions attributable to asset impairments, and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid:
The costs remaining for severance are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year.
 
80
 
 
During 2011, the Company accrued for employee separations associated with the acquisition and integration of Sterling.  Substantially all separation payments for the 2011 and 2010 accruals were completed by January 2012, and all 2009 separation payments were completed as of December 31, 2011.  During 2010 and 2009, the Company accrued for approximately 225 and 250 employee separations, respectively.
Included in other charges (income), net are gains or losses on foreign exchange transactions, results from equity investments, gains or losses on business venture investments, gains from the sale of non-operating assets, certain litigation costs, fees on securitized receivables, other non-operating income, and other miscellaneous items.  Investment gains in 2011 included increased earnings from the Nanjing, China joint venture and sales of business venture investments.
2007 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan
Eastman's 2007 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan ("2007 Omnibus Plan") was approved by stockholders at the May 3, 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and shall remain in effect until its fifth anniversary.  The 2007 Omnibus Plan authorizes the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors to:  grant awards, designate participants, determine the types and numbers of awards, determine the terms and conditions of awards and determine the form of award settlement.  Under the 2007 Omnibus Plan, the aggregate number of shares reserved and available for issuance is 8.2 million.  Any stock distributed pursuant to an award may consist of, in whole or in part, authorized and unissued stock, treasury stock, or stock purchased on the open market.  Under the 2007 Omnibus Plan and previous plans, the forms of awards have included:  restricted stock and restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), and performance shares.  The 2007 Omnibus Plan is flexible as to the number of specific forms of awards, but provides that stock options and SARs are to be granted at an exercise price not less than 100 percent of the per share fair market value on the date of the grant.
 
2008 Director Long-Term Compensation Subplan
Eastman's 2008 Director Long-Term Compensation Subplan ("2008 Directors' Subplan"), a component of the 2007 Omnibus Plan, remains in effect until terminated by the Board of Directors or the earlier termination of the 2007 Omnibus Plan.  The 2008 Directors' Subplan provides for structured awards of restricted shares to non-employee members of the Board of Directors.  Restricted shares awarded under the 2008 Directors' Subplan are subject to the same terms and conditions of the 2007 Omnibus Plan.  The 2008 Directors' Subplan does not constitute a separate source of shares for grant of equity awards and all shares awarded are part of the 8.2 million shares authorized under the 2007 Omnibus Plan.  Shares of restricted stock are granted on the first day of a non-employee director's initial term of service and shares of restricted stock are granted each year to each non-employee director on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders.
 
81
 
 
The Company is authorized by the Board of Directors under the 2007 Omnibus Plan and 2008 Directors' Subplan to provide grants to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors.  It has been the Company's practice to issue new shares rather than treasury shares for equity awards that require settlement by the issuance of common stock and to withhold or accept back shares awarded to cover the related income tax obligations of employee participants.  Shares of non-employee directors are not withheld or acquired to satisfy the withholding obligation related to their income taxes.  Shares of unrestricted common stock owned by specified senior management level employees are accepted by the Company to pay the exercise price of stock options in accordance with the terms and conditions of their awards.
For 2011, 2010, and 2009, total share-based compensation expense (before tax) of approximately $39 million, $25 million, and $20 million, respectively, was recognized in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all share-based awards of which approximately $4 million, $5 million, and $5 million, respectively, related to stock options.  The compensation expense is recognized over the substantive vesting period, which may be a shorter time period than the stated vesting period for retirement-eligible employees.  For 2011, 2010, and 2009, approximately $3 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense was recognized due to retirement eligibility preceding the requisite vesting period.
Stock Option Awards
Options have been granted on an annual basis to non-employee directors under predecessor plans to the 2008 Directors' Subplan and by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors under the 2007 Omnibus Plan and predecessor plans to employees.  Option awards have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company's stock on the date of grant.  The term of options is ten years with vesting periods that vary up to three years.  Vesting usually occurs ratably over the vesting period or at the end of the vesting period.  The Company utilizes the Black Scholes Merton option valuation model which relies on certain assumptions to estimate an option's fair value.
The weighted average assumptions used in the determination of fair value for stock options awarded in 2011, 2010, and 2009 are provided in the table below:
The volatility rate of grants is derived from historical Company common stock price volatility over the same time period as the expected term of each stock option award.  The volatility rate is derived by mathematical formula utilizing the weekly high closing stock price data over the expected term.
The expected dividend yield is calculated using the Company's average of the last four quarterly dividend yields.
The average risk-free interest rate is derived from United States Department of Treasury published interest rates of daily yield curves for the same time period as the expected term.
GAAP specifies only share-based awards expected to vest be included in share-based compensation expense.  Estimated forfeiture rates are determined using historical forfeiture experience for each type of award and are excluded from the quantity of awards included in share-based compensation expense.
The weighted average expected term reflects the analysis of historical share-based award transactions and includes option swap and reload grants which may have much shorter remaining expected terms than new option grants.
 
82
 
 
A summary of the activity of the Company's stock option awards for 2011, 2010, and 2009 is presented below:
The following table provides the remaining contractual term and weighted average exercise prices of stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011:
The range of exercise prices of options outstanding at December 31, 2011 is approximately $15 to $40 per share.  The aggregate intrinsic value of total options outstanding and total options exercisable at December 31, 2011 is $35 million and $32 million, respectively.  Intrinsic value is the amount by which the closing market price of the stock at December 31, 2011 exceeds the exercise price of the option grants.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of all exercisable options at December 31, 2011 is 4.8 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $9.27, $8.69, and $5.24, respectively.  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, was $37 million, $41 million, and $2 million, respectively.  Cash proceeds received by the Company from option exercises and the related tax benefit totals $59 million and $10 million, respectively, for 2011, $102 million and $10 million, respectively, for 2010, and $7 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for 2009.  The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $4 million, $5 million, and $8 million, respectively.
 
83
 
 
A summary of the status of the Company's nonvested options as of December 31, 2011 and changes during the year then ended is presented below:
For options unvested at December 31, 2011, approximately $4 million in compensation expense will be recognized over the next three years.
Other Share-Based Compensation Awards
In addition to stock option awards, the Company has awarded long-term performance stock awards, restricted stock awards, and stock appreciation rights.  The long-term performance awards are based upon actual return on capital compared to a target return on capital and total stockholder return compared to a peer group ranking by total stockholder return.  The recognized compensation cost before tax for these other share-based awards in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was approximately $35 million, $20 million, and $15 million, respectively.  The unrecognized compensation expense before tax for these same type awards at December 31, 2011 was approximately $40 million and will be recognized primarily over a period of three years.
Included in the line item "Other items, net" of the "Cash flows from operating activities" section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are specific changes to certain balance sheet accounts as follows:
The above changes included transactions such as monetized positions from raw material and energy, currency, and certain interest rate hedges, prepaid insurance, miscellaneous deferrals, accrued taxes, value-added taxes, and other miscellaneous accruals.
Cash flows from derivative financial instruments accounted for as hedges are classified in the same category as the item being hedged.
Non-cash portion of (gains) losses from the Company's equity investments was a $9 million gain for 2011, and losses of $3 million and $5 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
84
 
 
 
The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four reportable operating segments, consisting of the CASPI segment, the Fibers segment, the PCI segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.
The CASPI segment manufactures resins, specialty polymers, and solvents which are integral to the production of paints and coatings, inks, adhesives, and other formulated products.  The specialty polymers product line consists of cellulose-based specialty polymers and olefin-based performance products and accounted for 20 percent, 20 percent, and 15 percent of the segment's total sales for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  The resins product line consists of hydrocarbon resins, rosin resins, and resin dispersions and accounted for approximately 35 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2011, 2010, and 2009.  The solvents product line includes both specialty coalescents and ketones and commodity esters, glycol ethers, and alcohol solvents and accounted for approximately 45 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2011 and 2010 and 50 percent in 2009.
The Fibers segment manufactures Estron acetate tow and Estrobond triacetin plasticizers which are used primarily in cigarette filters; Estron and Chromspun acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; acetate flake for use by other acetate tow producers; and acetyl chemicals.  Acetate tow accounted for approximately 80 percent of the Fibers segment total sales revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009, with the remainder of sales from other product lines, including acetate yarn and acetyl chemicals products.
TM
TM
TM
TM
The PCI segment offers approximately 200 products that include intermediates based on oxo and acetyl chemistries and performance chemicals.  The PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer compounding, and chemical manufacturing intermediates.  In 2011, 2010, and 2009, the PCI segment's sales revenue was approximately 70 percent, 65 percent, and 50 percent, respectively, from olefin-based and 20 percent, 20 percent, and 35 percent, respectively, from acetyl-based chemistries, and 10 percent, 15 percent, and 15 percent, respectively, from other chemicals.  Olefin-based increased as a result of recent acquisitions and growth in plasticizers product lines.
The Specialty Plastics segment's key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products.  Included in these are highly specialized copolyesters, including Eastman Tritan copolyester, and cellulosic plastics that possess unique performance properties for value-added end uses such as appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, fiber, photographic and optical film, graphic arts, and general packaging.  Eastman's specialty copolyesters product lines accounted for approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales revenue.  Cellulosics and cellulosic plastics accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales revenue.
TM
Research and development and other expenses not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in segment operating results for any of the periods presented and are shown in the tables below as "other" operating losses.  The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives at a corporate level that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and environmentally-friendly chemistry.  These initiatives include the completion of a demonstration facility for market testing of acetylated wood, branded as Perennial Wood, in second half 2011 and commercial introduction in first quarter 2012 to select markets; the initial commercial introduction of the new Eastman Cerfis technology, with anticipation that the application will be expanded nationwide by the end of 2012; and the announcement of the new Eastman microfiber technology.
TM
TM
TM
 
85
 
 
In first quarter 2010, the Company transferred certain intermediates product lines from the discontinued Performance Polymers segment to the PCI segment to improve optimization of manufacturing assets supporting the three raw material streams that supply the Company's downstream businesses.  The revised segment composition reflects how management views and evaluates operations.  Accordingly, the amounts for sales, operating earnings, and assets have been adjusted to retrospectively apply these changes to all periods presented.
As discussed in Note 2, "Accounting Methodology Change for Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans", Eastman has elected to change its method of accounting for actuarial gains and losses for its pension and OPEB plans.  The new method recognizes actuarial gains and losses in the Company's operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur rather than amortizing them over future periods.  Historically, total pension and OPEB costs have been allocated to each segment.  In conjunction with the change in accounting principle, the service cost, which represents the benefits earned by active employees during the period, and amortization of prior service credits continue to be allocated to each segment.  Interest costs, expected return on assets, and the MTM adjustment for pension and OPEB plans actuarial gains and losses are now included in corporate expense and not allocated to segments.  Management believes this change in expense allocation will better reflect the operating results of each business.  The following tables show for each business segment the retrospective application of this expense allocation change for each period presented.
 
 
86
 
 
 
87
 
 
Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on customer location; long-lived assets are attributed to geographic areas based on asset location.
 
88
 
 
 
89
 
 
 
 
 
90
 
 
 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
91
 
 
 
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued amended accounting guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures with the purpose of converging the fair value measurement and disclosure guidance issued by the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board.  The guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The guidance includes amendments that clarify the intent of the application of existing fair value measurement requirements along with amendments that change a particular principle or requirement for fair value measurements and disclosures.  The Company has concluded that the new guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings, Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, or related disclosures.
In June 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance related to presentation of comprehensive income.  The standards update is intended to help financial statement users better understand the causes of an entity's change in financial position and results of operation.  It is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The amendments eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity.  The amendments require that all nonowner changes in stockholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements.  The FASB amended this guidance in December 2011 to postpone a requirement to present items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statement where the components of net income and other comprehensive income are presented and reinstate previous guidance related to such reclassifications.  Upon adoption, the Company will continue to present components of comprehensive income in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings.  Since this new guidance will affect disclosure requirements only, the Company has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
In December 2011, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board jointly issued amended accounting guidance to enhance disclosure requirements for instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position as well as instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement.  It is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013.  The Company is currently assessing the expected impact of this guidance on its disclosures.  Since this new guidance will affect disclosure requirements only, the Company has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
On January 26, 2012, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.  Under the terms of the agreement, Solutia stockholders will receive $22.00 in cash and 0.12 shares of Eastman common stock for each share of Solutia common stock, a total transaction value of approximately $4.7 billion, as of January 26, 2012, including the assumption of Solutia's debt.  The transaction is subject to approval by Solutia's shareholders and receipt of required regulatory approvals as well as other customary closing conditions.  The transaction is expected to close in mid-2012.
 
92
 

Exhibit 99.04
EXHIBIT 12.01
 
 
 
  93
 
 








