FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20120702133134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On July 2, 2012, Eastman Chemical Company (the "") completed its previously announced acquisition of Solutia Inc. (""), through the merger (the "") of Eagle Merger Sub Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (""), with and into Solutia, with Solutia surviving the Merger and becoming an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Merger was effected pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ""), dated January 26, 2012, by and among the Company, Merger Sub and Solutia.
Company
Solutia
Merger
Merger Sub
Merger Agreement
At the effective time of the Merger (the ""), each share of Solutia common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares owned by Solutia as treasury stock and shares held by holders properly exercising appraisal rights) was canceled and converted automatically into the right to receive, in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, (i) $22.00 in cash, without interest, and (ii) 0.12 shares of the Company's common stock (together, the "").
Effective Time
Merger Consideration
Also at the Effective Time:
 
 
 
 
In addition, as of the Effective Time, each warrant to purchase shares of Solutia common stock (the "") issued under the Warrant Agreement, dated February 28, 2008, between Solutia and the warrant agent named therein (the ""), was assumed by the Company and converted into a warrant to acquire, upon exercise, on substantially the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such warrant immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Merger Consideration (the "").
Solutia Warrants
Warrant Agreement
Eastman Warrants
The foregoing description of the Merger is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto, and is incorporated by reference herein.
The Company paid a total of approximately $2.7 billion in cash and issued 14,686,067 shares of its common stock to Solutia stockholders in the Merger. In addition, as a result of the assumption of the Solutia Warrants in the Merger, as of the Effective Time, there were 4,481,250 Eastman Warrants outstanding, which are potentially exercisable for an aggregate of up to 537,750 shares of the Company's common stock.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
A portion of the cash component of the purchase price paid in the Merger was funded from borrowings, on July 2, 2012, of $1.2 billion under the Company's previously disclosed Five-Year Senior Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated February 29, 2012, by and among the Company, the initial lenders named therein, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Barclays Capital Inc. (""), as joint lead arrangers, and Barclays, as syndication agent (the "")
Barclays
Term Loan
.
Additional information and details regarding the Term Loan are contained in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2012, and the foregoing description of the Term Loan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Term Loan filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2012.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
The information regarding the Eastman Warrants contained above under Item 1.01 is incorporated by reference herein and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Warrant Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto, and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, the completion of the Merger. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
In addition, also in connection with the completion of the Merger, Solutia repaid all amounts outstanding under its senior credit facility and issued notices of redemption to the holders of all of its 8
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2017 and 7
7
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2020 (together, the ""), and satisfied and discharged its obligations under the respective indentures relating to the Notes.
Notes
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing Solutia's redemption of the Notes is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The financial statements of Solutia required to be filed pursuant to this Item 9.01(a) have previously been filed as a part of, and are contained in, the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("") on May 18, 2012 (File No. 333-181549). Pursuant to General Instruction B.3 to Form 8-K, these financial statements are not additionally reported herein.
SEC
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The pro forma financial statements required to be filed pursuant to this Item 9.01(b) have previously been filed as a part of, and are contained in, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on May 18, 2012 (File No. 001-12626). Pursuant to General Instruction B.3 to Form 8-K, these financial statements are not additionally reported herein.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 2, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 2, 2012  Eastman Chemical Company (NYSE:EMN) announced today the completion of its acquisition of Solutia Inc. (NYSE:SOA). The approximately $4.8 billion acquisition supports Eastman's growth strategy to increase revenues and profit margins by expanding the company's geographic reach, especially in emerging markets, and establishing a more diverse and sustainable product portfolio. Eastman expects the acquisition to be immediately accretive to earnings, excluding acquisition-related costs and charges.
"We are pleased to complete this transaction and welcome Solutia to the global Eastman team," said Jim Rogers, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eastman. "The addition of these strong businesses, unique technologies, and highly differentiated products is expected to contribute strong cash generation and a solid return on capital to Eastman. We are confident this acquisition strengthens our position as a top-tier specialty chemicals company and establishes a powerful combined platform with significant opportunities for organic growth. We are committed to the successful integration of Solutia and look forward to delivering the projected growth and synergies from this combination."
With the acquisition of Solutia, Eastman has made structural and reporting changes resulting in five reporting segments: Additives and Functional Products, Adhesives and Plasticizers, Advanced Materials, Fibers, and Specialty Fluids and Intermediates. This structure takes into consideration the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employ to be leaders in their respective markets.
 
 
 
 
 
Solutia's Photovoltaics business will be managed as a developing business initiative and reported as "other" sales and operating earnings (loss).
The company will report third quarter 2012 financial results under the new reporting structure.
In conjunction with the realignment of its reporting segments, Eastman also announced the following changes in executive leadership responsibilities. Mark J. Costa, Executive Vice President, has responsibility for the Additives and Functional Products and Advanced Materials segments, and Ronald C. Lindsay, Executive Vice President, has responsibility for the Adhesives and Plasticizers, Fibers, and Specialty Fluids and Intermediates segments. Godefroy A. F. E. Motte is assuming responsibility for the company's global supply chain and procurement as Senior Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain, Chief Regional and Sustainability Officer.
The closing follows the receipt of all necessary regulatory and other approvals, including approval of the transaction by Solutia stockholders on June 29, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Solutia stockholders are entitled to receive $22.00 in cash and 0.12 shares of Eastman common stock for each share of Solutia common stock. Eastman issued 14,686,067 shares of its common stock in the acquisition and, as a result of the assumption of outstanding warrants to purchase shares of Solutia's common stock, has outstanding 4,481,250 warrants which are potentially exercisable for up to an aggregate of 537,750 shares of Eastman common stock and cash.
With the closing of the transaction, Solutia's common stock and warrants will cease trading on the New York Stock Exchange as of the close of the market on July 2, 2012 and will no longer be listed on the NYSE. Beginning on July 3, 2012, Eastman's warrants will trade on the NYSE under the symbol "EMN.W".
Eastman is a global specialty chemicals company that produces a broad range of advanced materials, additives and functional products, specialty chemicals, and fibers that are found in products people use every day. As a world leader in the diverse markets it serves, Eastman is focused on delivering innovative and technology-based solutions while maintaining its commitment to safety and sustainability. Serving customers in approximately 100 countries, Eastman had 2011 pro forma revenues, giving effect to the Solutia acquisition, of approximately $9.3 billion. The company is based in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA, and, with the completion of the Solutia acquisition, now employs approximately 13,500 people around the world. For more information, visit www.eastman.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This communication includes forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Eastman's current expectations regarding the
expected benefits of the Solutia acquisition, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom, and Eastman's anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for general economic conditions and growth. Such expectations are based upon certain preliminary information, internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events, and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are and will be detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Filings made by Eastman are available when filed with the SEC, on the Eastman web site at www.eastman.com in the Investors, SEC Information section.
Contacts:
Media:  Tracy Broadwater
423-224-0498 / tkbroadwater@eastman.com
Investors:  Greg Riddle
212-835-1620 / griddle@eastman.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
KINGSPORT, Tenn., July 2, 2012  Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" NYSE:EMN) announced that Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), which on July 2, 2012 became a wholly owned subsidiary of Eastman, will redeem all of Solutia's outstanding 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "8-3/4% Notes") and all of Solutia's outstanding 7-7/8% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "7-7/8% Notes" and, together with the 8-3/4% Notes, the "Notes"). In connection with Eastman's completion of its acquisition of Solutia, Solutia has irrevocably deposited amounts with the trustee with respect to the 8-3/4% Notes and the 7-7/8% Notes sufficient to fund the redemptions and to satisfy and discharge the Notes.
On August 1, 2012 (the "Equity Claw Redemption Date"), Solutia will redeem (i) $129,000,000 in principal amount of the 8-3/4% Notes (the "8-3/4% Notes Equity Claw Redemption"), and (ii) $91,000,000 in principal amount of the 7-7/8% Notes (the "7-7/8% Notes Equity Claw Redemption"). Solutia will redeem (i) the 8-3/4% Notes at a redemption price of 108.750% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Equity Claw Redemption Date, and (ii) the 7-7/8% Notes at a redemption price of 107.875% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Equity Claw Redemption Date.
On August 2, 2012 (the "Make-Whole Redemption Date"), Solutia will redeem (i) the remaining $260,000,000 in principal amount of the 8-3/4% Notes outstanding after the 8-3/4% Notes Equity Claw Redemption, at a redemption price of 100% of their principal amount, plus the 8-3/4% Notes Applicable Premium (as defined below) and accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Make-Whole Redemption Date, and (ii) the remaining $195,000,000 in principal amount of the 7-7/8% Notes outstanding after the 7-7/8% Notes Equity Claw Redemption, at a redemption price of 100% of their principal amount, plus the 7-7/8% Notes Applicable Premium (as defined below) and accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Make-Whole Redemption Date. The "8-3/4% Notes Applicable Premium" means the greater of: (1) 1.0% of the principal amount of the 8-3/4% Notes and (2) the excess, if any, of (i) the present value at the Make-Whole Redemption Date of (a) 104.375%, plus (b) all required interest payments due on the 8-3/4% Notes through November 1, 2013 (excluding accrued but unpaid interest to the Make-Whole Redemption Date), computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate (as defined) as of the Make-Whole Redemption Date plus 50 basis points; over (ii) then outstanding principal amount of the 8-3/4% Notes. The "7-7/8% Notes Applicable Premium" means the greater of: (1) 1.0% of the principal amount of the 7-7/8% Notes and (2) the excess, if any, of (i) the present value at the Make-Whole Redemption Date of (a) 103.938%, plus (b) all required interest payments due on the 7-7/8% Notes through March 15, 2015 (excluding accrued
but unpaid interest to the Make-Whole Redemption Date), computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate (as defined) as of the Make-Whole Redemption Date plus 50 basis points; over (ii) then outstanding principal amount of the 7-7/8% Notes.
Eastman is a global specialty chemicals company that produces a broad range of advanced materials, additives and functional products, specialty chemicals, and fibers that are found in products people use every day. As a world leader in the diverse markets it serves, Eastman is focused on delivering innovative and technology-based solutions while maintaining its commitment to safety and sustainability. Serving customers in approximately 100 countries, Eastman had 2011 pro forma revenues, giving effect to the Solutia acquisition, of approximately $9.3 billion. The company is based in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA, and, with the completion of the Solutia acquisition, now employs approximately 13,500 people around the world. For more information, visit www.eastman.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This communication may contain forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "intends," "plans," "estimates" or "anticipates," or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the redemption of the Notes; and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or achievements to be materially different from the future results or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Media:  Tracy Broadwater
423-224-0498 / tkbroadwater@eastman.com
Investors:  Greg Riddle
212-835-1620 / griddle@eastman.com


