FILE:EMN/EMN-8K-20121015171114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 15, 2012
EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
(423) 229-2000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY - EMN
Item 7.01 -- Regulation FD Disclosure
This Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Current Report") is being furnished by Eastman Chemical Company (the "Company") to provide selected unaudited pro forma combined segment information which reflects a change in the Company's reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization resulting from the July 2, 2012 acquisition of Solutia Inc. ("Solutia").
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01(d) -- Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished pursuant to Item 9.01:
 
Exhibit 99.01 Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Segment Information
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Beginning in third quarter 2012, Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization resulting from the July 2, 2012 acquisition of Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"). With the acquisition of Solutia, Eastman has made organizational and reporting changes resulting in five reporting segments: Additives and Functional Products, Adhesives and Plasticizers, Advanced Materials, Fibers, and Specialty Fluids and Intermediates. This organizational structure is based on the management of the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employ. The new reporting segments are as follows:
Solutia's Photovoltaics business will be managed as a developing business initiative and reported as Other sales and operating earnings (loss) with sales revenue and expenses not identifiable to an operating segment.
In conjunction with the realignment of its reporting segments, Eastman also made the following changes in executive leadership responsibilities: Mark J. Costa, Executive Vice President, has responsibility for the Additives and Functional Products and Advanced Materials segments; and Ronald C. Lindsay, Executive Vice President, has responsibility for the Adhesives and Plasticizers, Fibers, and Specialty Fluids and Intermediates segments.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Segment Information
While results will be provided on a historical basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), future discussion and analysis, beginning with the third quarter 2012 Quarterly Report Form 10-Q, and financial results press release furnished on Form 8-K will also include comparison of post-acquisition results to pre-acquisition pro forma combined results in order to provide the most meaningful comparison of results by reportable segment. The unaudited pro forma combined segment information is based on the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of both Eastman and Solutia and assumes that the acquisition of Solutia had been consummated on January 1, 2009. As a result, transaction and integration costs occurring in first and second quarters 2012 have been reallocated to first quarter 2009.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined segment information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been completed as of the dates indicated, nor is it indicative of the future operating results of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma combined segment information does not reflect future events that may occur after the acquisition of Solutia, including the potential realization of operating cost savings (synergies) or restructuring activities or other costs related to the planned integration of Solutia, and does not consider potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues or expenses.
The unaudited pro forma combined segment information reflects the combination of Eastman and Solutia and the impact of increased depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the fair valuation of assets acquired from Solutia in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The information also includes adjustments to Solutia historical information to be consistent with Eastman's change in method of accounting for actuarial gains and losses for its pension and other postretirement benefit ("OPEB") plans and adjustments to Solutia exclusions from operating earnings consistent with Eastman's historical presentation of non-GAAP results. In addition, corporate expenses, adjustments to environmental liabilities, and gains and losses from asset dispositions and restructuring charges that were previously reported as "Other" have been allocated to Eastman's reportable segments using a percentage of total revenue methodology based on Solutia's full year 2011 results. This allocation of corporate overhead from "Other" to the reportable segments is in accordance with Eastman's presentation of such costs. In conjunction with the change in accounting principle, the service cost, which represents the benefits earned by active employees during the period, and amortization of prior service credits continue to be allocated to each segment. Interest costs, expected return on assets, and the mark-to-market ("MTM") adjustment for actuarial gains and losses are included in corporate expense and not allocated to segments.
2012 Segment Information
 
(1)
Includes acquisition related expenses on the Southwall Technologies Inc. acquisition.
2011 Segment Information
2011 Segment Information (continued)
 
2010 Segment Information
2010 Segment Information (continued)
 
2009 Segment Information
2009 Segment Information (continued)
 
            


