ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For purposes of this discussion, the terms "Company" or "MetLife" refer, at all times prior to the date of demutualization (as hereinafter defined), to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life"), a mutual life insurance company organized under the laws of the State of New York, and its subsidiaries, and at all times on and after the date of demutualization, to MetLife, Inc. (the "Holding Company"), a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life. Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. BUSINESS REALIGNMENT INITIATIVES During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company implemented several business realignment initiatives, which resulted from a strategic review of operations and an ongoing commitment to reduce expenses. The following tables represent the original expenses recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the remaining liability as of December 31, 2002: PRE TAX CHARGES RECORDED IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 2001 INSTITUTIONAL INDIVIDUAL AUTO & HOME TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Severance and severance related costs...... $ 9 $32 $ 3 $ 44 Facilities consolidation costs............ 3 65 68 Business exit costs........................ 387 387 Total................................. $399 $97 $ 3 $499 REMAINING LIABILITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 INSTITUTIONAL INDIVIDUAL AUTO & HOME TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Severance and severance related costs....... $ $ 1 $ $ 1 Facilities consolidation costs............. 17 17 Business exit costs......................... 40 40 Total.................................. $40 $18 $ $58 The business realignment initiatives resulted in savings of approximately $95 million, net of income tax, during 2002, comprised of approximately $33 million, $57 million and $5 million in the Institutional, Individual and Auto & Home segments, respectively. Institutional. The charges to this segment in the fourth quarter of 2001 include costs associated with exiting a business, including the write off of goodwill, severance and severance related costs, and facilities consolidation costs. These expenses are the result of the discontinuance of certain 401(k) recordkeeping services and externally managed guaranteed index separate accounts. These actions resulted in charges to policyholder benefits and claims and other expenses of $215 million and $184 million, respectively. During the fourth quarter 42 of 2002, approximately $30 million of the charges recorded in 2001 were released into income primarily as a result of the accelerated implementation of the Companys exit from the large market 401(k) business. The business realignment initiatives will ultimately result in the elimination of approximately 930 positions. As of December 31, 2002, there were approximately 340 terminations to be completed. The Company continues to carry a liability as of December 31, 2002 since the exit plan could not be completed within one year due to circumstances outside the Companys control and since certain of its contractual obligations extended beyond one year. Individual. The charges to this segment in the fourth quarter of 2001 include facilities consolidation costs, severance and severance related costs, which predominately stem from the elimination of approximately 560 non sales positions and 190 operations and technology positions supporting this segment. As of December 31, 2002, there were approximately 25 terminations to be completed. These costs were recorded in other expenses. The remaining liability as of December 31, 2002 is due to certain contractual obligations that extended beyond one year. Auto & Home. The charges to this segment in the fourth quarter of 2001 include severance and severance related costs associated with the elimination of approximately 200 positions. All terminations were completed as of December 31, 2002. The costs were recorded in other expenses. SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 TRAGEDIES On September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks occurred in New York, Washington, D.C. and Pennsylvania (the "tragedies") triggering a significant loss of life and property which had an adverse impact on certain of the Companys businesses. The Company has direct exposure to these events with claims arising from its Individual, Institutional, Reinsurance and Auto & Home insurance coverages, and it believes the majority of such claims have been reported or otherwise analyzed by the Company. The Companys original estimate of the total insurance losses related to the tragedies, which was recorded in the third quarter of 2001, was $208 million, net of income taxes of $117 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2002 includes a $17 million, net of income taxes of $9 million, benefit from the reduction of the liability associated with the tragedies. The revision to the liability is the result of an analysis completed during the fourth quarter of 2002, which focused on the emerging incidence experienced over the past 12 months associated with certain disability products. As of December 31, 2002, the Companys remaining liability for unpaid and future claims associated with the tragedies was $47 million, principally related to disability coverages. This estimate has been and will continue to be subject to revision in subsequent periods, as claims are received from insureds and the claims to reinsurers are identified and processed. Any revision to the estimate of gross losses and reinsurance recoveries in subsequent periods will affect net income in such periods. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent on the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be adversely affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with the tragedies. The Companys general account investment portfolios include investments, primarily comprised of fixed maturities, in industries that were affected by the tragedies, including airline, other travel, lodging and insurance. Exposures to these industries also exist through mortgage loans and investments in real estate. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio exposed to industries affected by the tragedies was approximately $3.7 billion at December 31, 2002. The long term effects of the tragedies on the Companys businesses cannot be assessed at this time. The tragedies have had significant adverse effects on the general economic, market and political conditions, increasing many of the Companys business risks. This may have a negative effect on MetLifes businesses and results of operations over time. In particular, the declines in share prices experienced after the reopening of the U.S. equity markets following the tragedies have contributed, and may continue to contribute, to a decline in separate account assets, which in turn may have an adverse effect on fees earned in the Companys businesses. In addition, the Company has received and expects to continue to receive disability claims from individuals resulting from the tragedies. 43 THE DEMUTUALIZATION On April 7, 2000 (the "date of demutualization"), pursuant to an order by the New York Superintendent of Insurance (the "Superintendent") approving its plan of reorganization, as amended (the "plan"), Metropolitan Life converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Holding Company. In conjunction therewith, each policyholders membership interest was extinguished and each eligible policyholder received, in exchange for that interest, trust interests representing shares of Common Stock held in the MetLife Policyholder Trust, cash or an adjustment to their policy values in the form of policy credits, as provided in the plan. In addition, Metropolitan Lifes Canadian branch made cash payments to holders of certain policies transferred to Clarica Life Insurance Company in connection with the sale of a substantial portion of Metropolitan Lifes Canadian operations in 1998, as a result of a commitment made in connection with obtaining Canadian regulatory approval of that sale. The payments, which were recorded in the second quarter of 2000, were determined in a manner that was consistent with the treatment of, and fair and equitable to, eligible policyholders of Metropolitan Life. On the date of demutualization, the Holding Company conducted an initial public offering of 202,000,000 shares of its Common Stock and concurrent private placements of an aggregate of 60,000,000 shares of its Common Stock at an offering price of $14.25 per share. The shares of Common Stock issued in the offerings are in addition to 494,466,664 shares of Common Stock of the Holding Company distributed to the Metropolitan Life Policyholder Trust for the benefit of policyholders of Metropolitan Life in connection with the demutualization. On April 10, 2000, the Holding Company issued 30,300,000 additional shares of its Common Stock as a result of the exercise of over allotment options granted to underwriters in the initial public offering. Concurrently with these offerings, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business trust wholly owned by MetLife, Inc. (the "Trust"), issued 20,125,000 8.00% equity security units ("units") for an aggregate offering price of $1,006 million. Each unit originally consisted of (i) a contract to purchase, for $50, shares of Common Stock on May 15, 2003, and (ii) a capital security of the Trust, with a stated liquidation amount of $50. In accordance with the terms of the units, the Trust was dissolved on February 5, 2003 and $1,006 million aggregate principal amount of 8% debentures of the Holding Company (the "MetLife debentures"), the sole asset of the Trust, were distributed to the unit holders. As required by the terms of the units, the MetLife debentures were remarketed on behalf of the debenture holders on February 12, 2003 and the interest rate on the MetLife debentures was reset as of February 15, 2003 to 3.911% per annum for a yield to maturity of 2.876%. On the date of demutualization, Metropolitan Life established a closed block for the benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies of Metropolitan Life. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS In June 2002, the Company acquired Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), an insurance company based in Mexico with approximately $2.5 billion in assets as of the date of acquisition. The purchase price is subject to adjustment under certain provisions of the purchase agreement. The Company does not expect that any purchase price adjustment will have an impact on its consolidated statements of income. The Company is in the process of integrating Hidalgo and Seguros Genesis, S.A., ("Genesis"), MetLifes wholly owned Mexican subsidiary headquartered in Mexico City, to operate as a combined entity under the name MetLife Mexico. In November 2001, the Company acquired Compania de Seguros de Vida Santander S.A. and Compania de Reaseguros de Vida Soince Re S.A., wholly owned subsidiaries of Santander Central Hispano in Chile. These acquisitions marked MetLifes entrance into the Chilean insurance market. In July 2001, the Company completed its sale of Conning Corporation ("Conning"), an affiliate acquired in the acquisition of GenAmerica Financial Corporation ("GenAmerica") in 2000. Conning specialized in asset management for insurance company investment portfolios and investment research. In May 2001, the Company acquired Seguradora America Do Sul S.A., a life and pension company in Brazil. Seasul has been integrated into MetLifes wholly owned Brazilian subsidiary, Metropolitan Life Seguros e Previdencia Privada S.A. 44 In February 2001, the Holding Company consummated the purchase of Grand Bank, N.A., which was renamed MetLife Bank, N.A. ("MetLife Bank"). MetLife Bank provides banking services to individuals and small businesses in the Princeton, New Jersey area. On February 12, 2001, the Federal Reserve Board approved the Holding Companys application for bank holding company status and to become a financial holding company upon its acquisition of Grand Bank, N.A. During the second half of 2000, Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA") acquired the interest in RGA Financial Group, LLC it did not already own. In October 2000, the Company completed the sale of its 48% ownership interest in its affiliates, Nvest, L.P. and Nvest Companies L.P. In July 2000, the Company acquired the workplace benefits division of Business Mens Assurance Company ("BMA"), a Kansas City, Missouri based insurer. In April 2000, Metropolitan Life acquired the outstanding shares of Conning common stock not already owned by Metropolitan Life. In January 2000, Metropolitan Life completed its acquisition of GenAmerica, a holding company which included General American Life Insurance Company ("General American"), approximately 49% of the outstanding shares of RGA common stock, and 61% of the outstanding shares of Conning common stock, which was subsequently sold in 2001. Metropolitan Life owned 9% of the outstanding shares of RGA common stock prior to the completion of the GenAmerica acquisition. During 2002, the Company purchased an additional 327,600 shares of RGAs outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of $9.5 million to offset potential future dilution of the Companys holding of RGAs common stock arising from the issuance by RGA of company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of a subsidiary trust in December 2001. These purchases increased the Companys ownership percentage of outstanding shares of RGA common stock from approximately 58% at December 31, 2001 to approximately 59% at December 31, 2002. SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting policies, estimates and related judgments underlying the Companys consolidated financial statements are summarized below. In applying these accounting policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. INVESTMENTS The Companys principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage loans and real estate, all of which are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks are those associated with the recognition of impairments and income, as well as the determination of fair values. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; and (vi) other subjective 45 factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. In addition, the earnings on certain investments are dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned due to changing interest rates or equity markets. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market values is based on valuation methodologies, securities the Company deems to be comparable and assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. DERIVATIVES The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions primarily to manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows related to the Companys financial assets and liabilities or to changing fair values. The Company also purchases investment securities and issues certain insurance and reinsurance policies with embedded derivatives. The associated financial statement risk is the volatility in net income which can result from (i) changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as accounting hedges, and (ii) ineffectiveness of designated hedges in an environment of changing interest rates or fair values. In addition, accounting for derivatives is complex, as evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting standards which continue to evolve, as well as the significant judgments and estimates involved in determining fair value in the absence of quoted market values. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate in the circumstances. Such assumptions include estimated market volatility and interest rates used in the determination of fair value where quoted market values are not available. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new insurance business. These costs, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business, are deferred. The recovery of such costs is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates of gross margins and profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in the impairment of the asset and a charge to income if estimated future gross margins and profits are less than amounts deferred. In addition, the Company utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a standard industry practice, in its determination of the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but that it does change when large interim deviations have occurred. FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, annuities and disability insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and the profitability of the products is dependent on the pricing of the products. Principal assumptions used in pricing policies and in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns and inflation. The Company also establishes liabilities for unpaid claims and claims expenses for property and casualty insurance. Pricing of this insurance takes into account the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage, competitive factors, characteristics of the insured and the property covered, and profit considerations. Liabilities for property and casualty insurance are dependent on estimates of amounts payable for claims reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are influenced by historical experience and actuarial assumptions of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management strategies. Differences between the actual experience and assumptions used in pricing these policies and in the establishment of liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. 46 REINSURANCE The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish policy benefits and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed above. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company must determine if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company must review all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the Company is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a contract does not expose it to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. LITIGATION The Company is a party to a number of legal actions. Given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is difficult to estimate the impact of litigation on the Companys consolidated financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables used to determine amounts recorded. The data and variables that impact the assumption used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS The Company sponsors pension and other retirement plans in various forms covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the Company. Management determines these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, historical performance of the plan and its assets, and consultation with an independent consulting actuarial firm to aid it in selecting appropriate assumptions and valuing its related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used by the Company may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the Companys aggregate projected benefit obligation may vary and include an expectation of long term market appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. For the largest of the plans sponsored by the Company (the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees, with a projected benefit obligation of $4.3 billion or 98.6% of all qualified plans at December 31, 2002), the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, and the range of rates of future compensation increases used in that plans valuation at December 31, 2002 were 6.75%, 9% and 4% to 8%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plans valuation in 2003 is currently anticipated to be 8.5%. 47 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents consolidated financial information for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $19,086 $17,212 $16,317 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 2,139 1,889 1,820 Net investment income................................... 11,329 11,255 11,024 Other revenues.......................................... 1,377 1,507 2,229 Net investment losses (net of amounts allocable to other accounts of ($145), ($134) and ($54), respectively)... (784) (603) (390) Total revenues..................................... 33,147 31,260 31,000 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts directly related to net investment losses of ($150), ($159) and $41, respectively)......................... 19,523 18,454 16,893 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 2,950 3,084 2,935 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1,942 2,086 1,919 Payments to former Canadian policyholders............... 327 Demutualization costs................................... 230 Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net investment losses of $5, $25 and ($95), respectively)......................................... 7,061 7,022 7,401 Total expenses..................................... 31,476 30,646 29,705 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 1,671 614 1,295 Provision for income taxes.............................. 516 227 421 Income from continuing operations....................... 1,155 387 874 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 450 86 79 Net income.............................................. $ 1,605 $ 473 $ 953 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 THE COMPANY Premiums increased by $1,874 million, or 11%, to $19,086 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $17,212 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is primarily attributable to increases in the Institutional, International and Reinsurance segments. A $966 million increase in Institutional is largely due to sales growth in its group life, dental, disability and long term care businesses, a sale of a significant retirement and savings contract in the second quarter of 2002, as well as new sales throughout 2002 in this segments structured settlements and traditional annuity products. The June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo, the 2001 acquisitions in Chile and Brazil and the sale of an annuity contract in the first quarter of 2002 to a Canadian trust company are the primary drivers of a $665 million increase in International. A portion of the increase in International is also attributable to business growth in South Korea, Mexico (excluding Hidalgo), Spain and Taiwan. In addition, an increase in Canada due to the restructuring of a pension contract from an investment type product to a long term annuity contributed to this variance. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties, and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business contributed to a $243 million increase in the Reinsurance segment. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $250 million, or 13%, to $2,139 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,889 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is 48 primarily attributable to the Individual, International and Institutional segments. A $120 million favorable variance in Individual is due to an increase in policy fees from insurance products, primarily due to higher revenue from insurance fees, which increase as the average separate account asset base supporting the underlying minimum death benefits declines. The average separate account asset base has declined in 2002 in response to poor equity market performance. These increases are partially offset by lower policy fees from annuity and investment type products generally resulting from poor equity market performance despite growth in annuity deposits. Management would expect policy fees from annuity and investment type products to continue to be adversely impacted while revenues from insurance fees on variable life products would be expected to rise if average separate account asset levels continue to decline. A $106 million increase in International is largely due to the acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile, partially offset by a decrease in Spain due to the cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander Central Hispano, S.A., ("Banco Santander") in 2001. A $23 million increase in Institutional is principally due to a fee related to the renegotiation of a portion of a bank owned life insurance contract, as well as growth in existing business in the group universal life product. Net investment income increased by $74 million, or 1%, to $11,329 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $11,255 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is primarily attributable to increases of (i) $61 million, or 1%, in income from fixed maturities, (ii) $54 million, or 12%, in income from real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment, net of investment expenses and depreciation, (iii) $35 million, or 2%, in income on mortgage loans on real estate, (iv) $7 million, or 1%, in interest income on policy loans, and (v) lower investment expenses of $9 million, or 4%. These variances are partially offset by decreases of (i) $47 million, or 17%, in income on cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, (ii) $31 million, or 12%, in income on other invested assets, and (iii) $14 million, or 14%, in income from equity securities and other limited partnership interests. The increase in income from fixed maturities to $8,092 million in 2002 from $8,031 million in 2001 is largely due to a higher asset base, primarily resulting from increased cash flows from sales of insurance and the acquisitions in Mexico and Chile. In addition, securities lending income was higher due to increased activity and a more favorable cost of funds. The increases in income from fixed maturities are partially offset by decreases resulting from lower reinvestment rates and a decline in bond prepayment fees. The increase in income from real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment to $513 million in 2002 from $459 million in 2001 is primarily due to the transfer of the Companys One Madison Avenue, New York property from a company use property to an investment property in 2002. The increase in income on mortgage loans on real estate to $1,883 million in 2002 from $1,848 million in 2001 is due primarily to a higher asset base from new loan production, partially offset by lower mortgage rates. The increase in interest income from policy loans to $543 million in 2002 from $536 million in 2001 is largely due to increased loans outstanding. The decrease in income from cash, cash equivalents and short term investments to $232 million in 2002 from $279 million in 2001 is due to declining interest rates coupled with a decrease in the asset base. The decrease in net investment income from other invested assets to $218 million in 2002 from $249 million in 2001 is largely due to lower derivative income, partially offset by an increase in reinsurance contracts funds withheld at interest. The decline in income from equity securities and other limited partnership interests to $83 million in 2002 from $97 million in 2001 primarily resulted from lower dividend income from equity securities, partially offset by higher limited corporate partnership distributions. The increase in net investment income is attributable to increases in the International, Individual and Reinsurance segments, partially offset by decreases in Corporate & Other, and the Institutional and Auto & Home segments. A $194 million increase in International is due to a higher asset base resulting from the acquisitions in Mexico and Chile. Individual increased by $71 million primarily due to higher income from securities lending and limited corporate partnership distributions, partially offset by lower bond prepayment fee income. The Reinsurance segment increased $31 million largely resulting from an increase in reinsurance contracts funds withheld at interest. The decrease in Corporate & Other of $149 million is due to a lower asset base, resulting from funding Internationals acquisitions in Mexico and Chile, as well as the Companys common stock repurchases, partially offset by higher income from securities lending. Institutional decreased $38 million 49 predominantly as a result of decreased limited partnership, equity linked note and bond prepayment fee income. Auto & Home decreased $23 million primarily due to lower reinvestment rates. Other revenues decreased by $130 million, or 9%, to $1,377 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,507 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is primarily attributable to decreases in the Individual, Institutional and Asset Management segments, partially offset by an increase in Corporate & Other. Individual decreased by $77 million resulting from lower commission and fee income associated with decreased volume in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries as a result of the depressed equity markets. A $40 million decrease in Institutional is primarily due to a $73 million reduction in administrative fees as a result of the Companys exit from the large market 401(k) business in late 2001, as well as lower fees earned on investments in separate accounts resulting generally from poor equity market performance. This reduction is partially offset by a $33 million increase in group insurance due to growth in the administrative service businesses and a settlement received in 2002 related to the Companys former medical business. A $32 million decrease in Asset Management is primarily due to the sale of Conning in July 2001. These variances were partially offset by an increase of $16 million in Corporate & Other principally due to the sale of a company occupied building and income earned on corporate owned life insurance ("COLI") purchased during 2002, partially offset by an increase in the elimination of intersegment activity. The Companys investment gains and losses are net of related policyholder amounts. The amounts netted against investment gains and losses are (i) amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, to the extent that such amortization results from investment gains and losses, (ii) adjustments to participating contractholder accounts when amounts equal to such investment gains and losses are applied to the contractholders accounts, and (iii) adjustments to the policyholder dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses. Net investment losses increased by $181 million, or 30%, to $784 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $603 million for the comparable 2001 period. This increase reflects total investment losses, before offsets, of $929 million (including gross gains of $2,028 million, gross losses of $1,469 million, and writedowns of $1,488 million), an increase of $192 million, or 26%, from $737 million in 2001. Offsets include the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of ($5) million and ($25) million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation of $157 million and $159 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, and adjustments to participating contracts of ($7) million in 2002. Refer to " Investments" beginning on page 81 for a discussion of the Companys investment portfolio. The Company believes its policy of netting related policyholder amounts against investment gains and losses provides important information in evaluating its performance. Investment gains and losses are often excluded by investors when evaluating the overall financial performance of insurers. The Company believes its presentation enables readers to easily exclude investment gains and losses and the related effects on the consolidated statements of income when evaluating its performance. The Companys presentation of investment gains and losses, net of policyholder amounts, may be different from the presentation used by other insurance companies and, therefore, amounts in its consolidated statements of income may not be comparable to amounts reported by other insurers. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $1,069 million, or 6%, to $19,523 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $18,454 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is attributable to increases in the International, Institutional and Reinsurance segments, partially offset by a decrease in the Auto & Home segment. A $699 million increase in International is primarily due to the acquisition of Hidalgo, the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil, the aforementioned sale of an annuity contract, the restructuring of a Canadian pension contract and business growth in South Korea, Mexico (excluding Hidalgo), Taiwan and Spain. An increase in Institutional of $415 million is commensurate with the growth in premiums as discussed above, largely offset by the establishment of a liability in 2001 related to the September 11, 2001 tragedies and the 2001 fourth quarter business realignment initiatives. An increase in Reinsurance of $70 million is commensurate with the growth in premiums discussed above. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $102 million in the Auto & Home segment. The variance in Auto & Home is largely due to improved claim frequency resulting from milder winter weather, lower catastrophe levels and fewer personal umbrella claims, partially offset by an 50 increase in current year bodily injury and no fault severities and costs associated with the processing of the New York assigned risk business. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $134 million, or 4%, to $2,950 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $3,084 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is attributable to decreases in the Individual and Institutional segments, partially offset by increases in the International and Reinsurance segments. A $105 million decrease in Individual is primarily due to the establishment in 2001 of a policyholder liability with respect to certain group annuity contracts at New England Financial. Excluding this policyholder liability, interest credited expense increased slightly in response to an increase in policyholder account balances, which is primarily attributable to sales growth despite declines in interest crediting rates. An $81 million decrease in Institutional is primarily due to a decline in average crediting rates resulting from the current interest rate environment. These variances are partially offset by a net increase of $28 million in International. This increase is principally due to the acquisition of Hidalgo, partially offset by a reduction in the number of investment type policies in force in Argentina. In addition, a $24 million increase in Reinsurance is primarily due to several new deferred annuity reinsurance agreements executed during 2002. Policyholder dividends decreased by $144 million, or 7%, to $1,942 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,086 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is attributable to a decrease in the Institutional segment resulting from unfavorable mortality experience of several large group clients. Institutional policyholder dividends vary from period to period based on participating contract experience, which is recorded in policyholder benefits and claims. Other expenses increased by $39 million, or 1%, to $7,061 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $7,022 million for the comparable 2001 period. Excluding the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which are discussed below, other expenses increased by $114 million, or 2%, to $7,762 million in 2002 from $7,648 million in 2001. Excluding the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and the change in accounting as prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, ("SFAS 142"), which eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangibles, other expenses increased by $161 million. This variance is primarily attributable to increases in the Reinsurance and International segments, as well as in Corporate & Other, partially offset by decreases in the Institutional, Individual and Asset Management segments. A $209 million increase in Reinsurance is primarily attributable to increases in allowances paid, primarily driven by high allowance business in the U.K. along with strong growth in the U.S. and Asia/Pacific regions. An increase of $166 million in International expenses is primarily due to the acquisition of Hidalgo, the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil, as well as business growth in South Korea, Mexico (excluding Hidalgo), and Hong Kong. An increase in Corporate & Other of $112 million is primarily due to increases in legal and interest expenses. The 2002 period includes a $266 million charge to increase the Companys asbestos related liability and expenses to cover costs associated with the resolution of federal government investigations of General Americans former Medicare business. These increases are partially offset by a $250 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover costs associated with the resolution of class action lawsuits and a regulatory inquiry pending against Metropolitan Life involving alleged race conscious insurance underwriting practices prior to 1973. The increase in interest expenses is primarily due to increases in long term debt resulting from the issuance of $1.25 billion and $1 billion of senior debt in November 2001 and December 2002, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in commercial paper in 2002. In addition, a decrease in the elimination of intersegment activity contributed to the variance. A decrease of $181 million in Institutional is due to higher expenses resulting from the business realignment initiatives accrual in the fourth quarter 2001 (primarily the Companys exit from the large market 401(k) business), $30 million of which was released into income in the fourth quarter of 2002. This decrease is partially offset by an increase in 2002 operational expenses for dental and disability and group insurances non deferrable expenses commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth, as well as higher pension and post retirement benefit expenses. A decrease of $105 million in Individual is due to continued expense management initiatives, including reduced compensation related expenses, a decline in business realignment expenses that were incurred in 2001 and reductions in volume related commission expenses in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries. These declines are partially offset by higher pension and post retirement benefit expenses and an 51 increase in expenses stemming from sales growth in new annuity and investment type products. In addition, a decrease of $39 million in Asset Management is primarily due to the sale of Conning in July 2001. Primarily as a result of changes in expected rate of return and discount rate assumptions effective for 2003, the Company currently anticipates its pension expense will increase by approximately $115 million, net of income tax, for the year ending December 31, 2003 from the comparable 2002 period. Deferred policy acquisition costs are principally amortized in proportion to gross margins and profits, including investment gains or losses. The amortization is allocated to investment gains and losses to provide consolidated statement of income information regarding the impact of investment gains and losses on the amount of the amortization, and other expenses to provide amounts related to gross margins and profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased by $301 million, or 15%, to $2,340 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,039 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is primarily due to increases in the Reinsurance, Individual, International and Institutional segments. A $125 million increase in Reinsurance is commensurate with the increase in allowances paid. A $111 million increase in Individual is due to higher sales of annuity and investment type products, resulting in higher commissions and other deferrable expenses. A $51 million increase in International is primarily due to the 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo and overall business growth in South Korea, partially offset by a decrease in Argentina due to the reduction in business caused by the overall economic environment. A $22 million increase in Institutional is primarily due to growth in sales commissions and fees for disability products sold by Institutional. Total amortization of deferred policy acquisitions costs increased by $206 million, or 14%, to $1,644 million in 2002 from $1,438 million in 2001. Amortization of $1,639 million and $1,413 million are allocated to other expenses in 2002 and 2001, respectively, while the remainder of the amortization in each period is allocated to investment gains and losses. The increase in amortization allocated to other expenses is attributable to increases in the Individual, International and Reinsurance segments. An increase of $111 million in Individual is due to the impact of the depressed equity markets and changes in the estimates of future gross profits. In 2002, estimates of future dividend scales, future maintenance expenses, future rider margins, and future reinsurance recoveries were revised. In 2001, estimates of future fixed account interest spreads, future gross margins and profits related to separate accounts and future mortality margins were revised. An increase in International of $64 million is primarily due to loss recognition in Argentina as a result of the economic environment, primarily the devaluation of its currency. The remaining increase was due to new business in South Korea, Taiwan, and the June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo. An increase in Reinsurance of $55 million is due to growth in the business, commensurate with the growth in premiums described above. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $516 million, or 31% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $227 million, or 37%, for the comparable 2001 period. The 2002 effective tax rate differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income. The 2001 effective tax rate differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35%, due to an increase in prior year income taxes on capital gains. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets ("SFAS 144"), income related to the Companys real estate which was identified as held for sale on or after January 1, 2002 is presented as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The income from discontinued operations is comprised of net investment income and net investment gains related to 47 properties that the Company began marketing for sale on or after January 1, 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized $582 million of net investment gains from discontinued operations due primarily to the sale of 36 properties. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 THE COMPANY Premiums grew by $895 million, or 5%, to $17,212 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $16,317 for the comparable 2000 period. This variance is attributable to increases in the Institutional, Reinsurance, International and Auto & Home segments, partially offset by a decrease in the Individual segment. An improvement of $388 million in the Institutional segment is predominantly the result of sales growth and 52 continued favorable policyholder retention in this segments dental, disability and long term care businesses. In addition, significant premiums received from several existing group life customers in 2001 and the BMA acquisition in 2000 resulted in higher premiums. The 2000 balance includes $124 million in additional insurance coverages purchased by existing customers with funds received in the demutualization and significant premiums received from existing retirement and savings customers. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business all contributed to the $312 million premium growth in the Reinsurance segment. A $186 million rise in the International segment is due to growth in Mexico, South Korea, Spain and Taiwan, as well as acquisitions in Brazil and Chile. These variances were partially offset by a decline in Argentinean individual life premiums, reflecting the impact of economic and political events in that country. Higher average premium resulting from rate increases is the primary driver of a $119 million rise in the Auto & Home segment. A $110 million decline in the Individual segment is attributable to lower sales of traditional life insurance policies, which reflects a continued shift in customer preference from those policies to variable life products. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $69 million, or 4%, to $1,889 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,820 million for the comparable 2000 period. This variance is due to increases in the Institutional and Individual segments, partially offset by a decline in the International segment. Growth in sales and deposits of group universal life and COLI products resulted in a $45 million increase in the Institutional segment. A $39 million rise in the Individual segment is predominantly the result of higher fees from variable life products reflecting a shift in customer preferences from traditional life products. A decrease of $15 million in the International segment is primarily due to reduced fees in Spain resulting from fewer assets under management. This is a result of a planned cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander. Net investment income increased by $231 million, or 2%, to $11,255 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $11,024 million for the comparable 2000 period. This change is due to higher income from (i) mortgage loans on real estate of $155 million, or 9%, (ii) fixed maturities of $116 million, or 1%, (iii) other invested assets of $87 million, or 54%, and (iv) interest income on policy loans of $21 million, or 4%. These positive variances are partially offset by lower income from (i) equity securities and other limited partnership interests of $86 million, or 47%, (ii) real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment, net of investment expenses and depreciation, of $49 million, or 10%, (iii) cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $9 million, or 3%, and (iv) higher investment expenses of $4 million, or 2%. The increase in income from mortgage loans on real estate to $1,848 million in 2001 from $1,693 million in 2000 is predominantly the result of higher mortgage production volume and increases in mortgage prepayment fees and contingent interest. The improvement in income from fixed maturities to $8,031 million in 2001 from $7,915 million in 2000 is primarily due to bond prepayments and increased securities lending activity, offset by lower yields on reinvestments. Income from other invested assets increased to $249 million in 2001 from $162 million in 2000 primarily due to the reclassification of $19 million from other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, $24 million from derivatives not designated as accounting hedges and the recognition in 2000 of a $20 million loss on an equity method investment. The increase in interest income from policy loans to $536 million in 2001 from $515 million in 2000 is largely due to increased loans outstanding. The reduction of income from equity securities and other limited partnership interests to $97 million in 2001 from $183 million in 2000 is primarily due to fewer sales of underlying assets held in corporate partnerships and increased partnership write downs. The decrease in income from real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment to $459 million in 2001 from $508 million in 2000 is primarily due to a decline in hotel occupancy rates and reduced real estate joint venture sales. The increase in net investment income is largely attributable to positive variances in the Institutional and Individual segments, partially offset by a decline in Corporate & Other. Net investment income for the Institutional and Individual segments grew by $254 million and $80 million, respectively. These increases are predominately due to a higher volume of securities lending activity, increases in bond and mortgage prepayments and higher contingent interest on mortgages. The decrease in Corporate & Other is principally the result of sales in 2000 of underlying assets held in corporate limited partnerships. The remainder of the variance is attributable to smaller fluctuations in the other segments. 53 Other revenues decreased by $722 million, or 32%, to $1,507 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $2,229 million for the comparable 2000 period. This variance is mainly attributable to reductions in the Asset Management, Individual and Auto & Home segments, partially offset by an increase in the Reinsurance segment. The sales of Nvest and Conning in October 2000 and July 2001, respectively, are the primarily drivers of a $562 million decline in the Asset Management segment. A decrease of $155 million in the Individual segment is primarily due to reduced commission and fee income associated with lower sales in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries which was a result of the equity market downturn. Such commission and fee income can fluctuate consistent with movements in the equity market. Auto & Homes other revenues are lower by $18 million primarily due to a revision of an estimate made in 2000 of amounts recoverable from reinsurers related to the disposition of this segments reinsurance business in 1990. Other revenues in the Reinsurance segment improved by $13 million due to an increase in fees earned on financial reinsurance, primarily as a result of the acquisition of the remaining interest in RGA Financial Group, LLC during the second half of 2000. The Companys investment gains and losses are net of related policyholder amounts. The amounts netted against investment gains and losses are (i) amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, to the extent that such amortization results from investment gains and losses, (ii) additions to participating contractholder accounts when amounts equal to such investment gains and losses are credited to the contractholders accounts, and (iii) adjustments to the policyholder dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses. Net investment losses grew by $213 million, or 55%, to $603 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $390 million for the comparable 2000 period. This increase reflects total investment losses, before offsets, of $737 million, an increase of $293 million, or 66%, from $444 million in 2000. Offsets include the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of ($25) million and $95 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively; changes in policyholder dividend obligation of $159 million and $85 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively; and additions to participating contracts of ($126) million in 2000. Excluding the net gain on the sale of a subsidiary, net investment losses decreased from the prior year. The Company recognized deteriorating credits through the proactive sale of certain assets. The Company believes its policy of netting related policyholder amounts against investment gains and losses provides important information in evaluating its operating performance. Investment gains and losses are often excluded by investors when evaluating the overall financial performance of insurers. The Company believes its presentation enables readers of its consolidated statements of income to easily exclude investment gains and losses and the related effects on the consolidated statements of income when evaluating its operating performance. The Companys presentation of investment gains and losses, net of related policyholder amounts, may be different from the presentation used by other insurance companies and, therefore, amounts in its consolidated statements of income may not be comparable to amounts reported by other insurers. Policyholder benefits and claims rose by $1,561 million, or 9%, to $18,454 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $16,893 million for the comparable 2000 period. The variance in policyholder benefits and claims is mainly attributable to increases in the Institutional, Reinsurance, Individual, International and Auto & Home segments. Claims related to the September 11, 2001 tragedies and fourth quarter business realignment initiatives account for $291 million and $215 million, respectively, of a $746 million increase in the Institutional segment. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to growth in the group life, dental, disability and long term care insurance businesses, commensurate with the variance in premiums, partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits and claims related to the retirement and savings business. Policyholder benefits and claims for the Reinsurance segment rose by $388 million due to unfavorable mortality experience in the first and fourth quarters of 2001, as well as adverse results on the reinsurance of Argentine pension business, reflecting the impact of economic and political events in that country. In addition, reinsurance claims arising from the September 11, 2001 tragedies of approximately $16 million, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, contributed to the variance. A $179 million rise in the Individual segment is primarily the result of an increase in the liabilities for future policy benefits commensurate with the aging of the in force block of business. In addition, an increase of $74 million in the policyholder dividend obligation and $24 million in liabilities and claims associated with the September 11, 2001 tragedies contributed to the variance. International policyholder benefits and claims increased by $127 million as a result of growth in Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan, as well as acquisitions in Brazil and Chile. These fluctuations are partially offset by a decline in Argentina, reflecting the 54 impact of economic and political events in that country. A $116 million increase in the Auto & Home segment is predominantly the result of increased average claim costs, growth in the auto business and increased non catastrophe weather related losses. Interest credited to policyholder account balances grew by $149 million, or 5%, to $3,084 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $2,935 million for the comparable 2000 period, primarily due to an increase of $218 million in the Individual segment, partially offset by a $77 million reduction in the Institutional segment. The establishment of a policyholder liability of $118 million with respect to certain group annuity contracts at New England Financial is the primary driver of the fluctuation in Individual. In addition, higher average policyholder account balances and slightly increased crediting rates contributed to the variance. The decrease in the Institutional segment is primarily due to an overall decline in crediting rates in 2001 as a result of the low interest rate environment, partially offset by an increase in average customer account balances stemming from asset growth. The remaining variance is due to minor fluctuations in the Reinsurance and International segments. Policyholder dividends increased by $167 million, or 9%, to $2,086 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,919 million for the comparable 2000 period, primarily due to increases of $135 million and $25 million in the Institutional and Individual segments, respectively. The rise in the Institutional segment is primarily attributed to favorable experience on a large group life contract in 2001. Policyholder dividends vary from period to period based on participating contract experience, which is recorded in policyholder benefits and claims. The change in the Individual segment reflects growth in the assets supporting policies associated with this segments aging block of traditional life insurance business. The remaining variance is due to minor fluctuations in the International and Reinsurance segments. Payments of $327 million were made during the second quarter of 2000, as part of Metropolitan Lifes demutualization, to holders of certain policies transferred to Clarica Life Insurance Company in connection with the sale of a substantial portion of the Canadian operations in 1998. Demutualization costs of $230 million were incurred during the year ended December 31, 2000. These costs are related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization on April 7, 2000. Other expenses decreased by $379 million, or 5%, to $7,022 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $7,401 million for the comparable 2000 period. Excluding the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which are discussed below, other expenses declined by $138 million, or 2%, to $7,648 million in 2001 from $7,786 million in 2000. This variance is attributable to reductions in the Asset Management, Individual and Auto & Home segments, partially offset by increases in the other segments. A decrease of $532 million in the Asset Management segment is predominantly the result of the sales of Nvest and Conning in October 2000 and July 2001, respectively. The Individual segments expenses declined by $121 million due to continued expense management, primarily due to reduced employee costs and lower discretionary spending. In addition, there were reductions in volume related commission expenses in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries. These items are partially offset by an increase of $97 million related to fourth quarter 2001 business realignment initiatives. A $34 million decrease in Auto & Home is attributable to a reduction in integration costs associated with the acquisition of the standard personal lines property and casualty insurance operations of The St. Paul Companies in September 1999 ("St. Paul acquisition"). An increase of $287 million in Institutional expenses is primarily driven by expenses associated with fourth quarter business realignment initiatives of $184 million and a rise in non deferrable variable expenses associated with premium growth in the group insurance businesses. Non deferrable variable expenses include premium tax, commissions and administrative expenses for dental, disability and long term care businesses. Other expenses in Corporate & Other grew by $198 million primarily due to a $250 million race conscious underwriting loss provision which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001, additional expenses associated with MetLife, Inc. shareholder services costs and start up costs relating to MetLifes banking initiatives, as well as a decrease in the elimination of intersegment activity. These increases are partially offset by a decline in interest expense due to reduced average levels in borrowing and a lower interest rate environment in 2001. An increase of $43 million in the International segment is predominantly the result of growth in Mexico and South Korea, and acquisitions in Brazil and Chile, partially offset by a decrease in Spains other expenses due to a planned cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander. The acquisition of the remaining interest in RGA Financial Group, 55 LLC during the second half of 2000 contributed to the $20 million increase in other expenses in the Reinsurance segment. Deferred policy acquisition costs are principally amortized in proportion to gross margins or profits, including investment gains or losses. The amortization is allocated to investment gains and losses to provide consolidated statement of income information regarding the impact of investment gains and losses on the amount of the amortization, and other expenses to provide amounts related to gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased to $2,039 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,863 million for the comparable 2000 period. This variance is attributable to increases in the Individual, Reinsurance, Institutional and International segments. The growth in the Individual segment is primarily due to higher sales of variable and universal life insurance policies and annuity and investment type products, resulting in additional commissions and other deferrable expenses. The increases in the Reinsurance, Institutional and International segments are commensurate with growth in those businesses. Total amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased to $1,438 million in 2001 from $1,383 million in 2000. Amortization of $1,413 million and $1,478 million are allocated to other expenses in 2001 and 2000, respectively, while the remainder of the amortization in each year is allocated to investment gains and losses. The decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs allocated to other expenses is attributable to a decline in the Individual segment, partially offset by increases in the Reinsurance and International segments. The decline in the Individual segment is due to changes in the estimates of future gross margins and profits. Contributing to this variance are modifications made in the third quarter of 2001 relating to the manner in which estimates of future market performance are developed. These estimates are used in determining unamortized deferred policy acquisition costs balances and the amount of related amortization. The modification will reflect an expected impact of past market performance on future market performance, as well as improving the ability to estimate deferred policy acquisition costs balances and related amortization. The increase in the Reinsurance segment is primarily due to fluctuations in allowances paid to ceding companies as a result of a change in product mix. The increase in the International segment is due to a write off of deferred policy acquisition costs as a result of the economic and political events in Argentina. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2001 was $227 million, or 37%, of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $421 million, or 33%, for the comparable 2000 period. The 2001 effective tax rate differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35% due to an increase in prior year income taxes on capital gains. The 2000 effective tax rate differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the payments made in the second quarter of 2000 to former Canadian policyholders in connection with the demutualization, the impact of surplus tax and a reduction in prior year income taxes on capital gains recorded in the third quarter of 2000. This reduction is associated with the previous sale of a business. Prior to its demutualization, the Company was subject to surplus tax imposed on mutual life insurance companies under Section 809 of the Internal Revenue Code. The surplus tax results from the disallowance of a portion of a mutual life insurance companys policyholder dividends as a deduction from taxable income. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, income related to the Companys real estate which was identified as held for sale on or after January 1, 2002 is presented as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The income from discontinued operations is comprised of net investment income related to 47 properties that the Company began marketing for sale on or after January 1, 2002. 56 INDIVIDUAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Individual segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $ 4,507 $ 4,563 $ 4,673 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 1,380 1,260 1,221 Net investment income................................... 6,259 6,188 6,108 Other revenues.......................................... 418 495 650 Net investment (losses) gains........................... (164) 827 227 Total revenues..................................... 12,400 13,333 12,879 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 5,220 5,233 5,054 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 1,793 1,898 1,680 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1,770 1,767 1,742 Other expenses.......................................... 2,629 2,747 3,012 Total expenses..................................... 11,412 11,645 11,488 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 988 1,688 1,391 Provision for income taxes.............................. 363 631 507 Income from continuing operations....................... 625 1,057 884 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 201 38 36 Net income.............................................. $ 826 $ 1,095 $ 920 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 INDIVIDUAL Premiums decreased by $56 million, or 1%, to $4,507 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $4,563 million for the comparable 2001 period. Premiums from insurance products decreased by $94 million, primarily resulting from a third quarter 2002 amendment of a reinsurance agreement to increase the amount of insurance ceded from 50% to 100%. This amendment was effective January 1, 2002. The Company also believes the decline is the result of a continued shift in policyholders preference from traditional policies to annuity and investment type products. These decreases are partially offset by policyholders expanding their traditional life insurance coverage through the purchase of additional insurance with dividend proceeds in 2002. Premiums from annuity products increased by $38 million as a result of higher sales of fixed annuities and supplementary contracts with life contingencies. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $120 million, or 10%, to $1,380 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,260 million for the comparable 2001 period. Policy fees from insurance products increased by $145 million primarily due to higher revenue from insurance fees, which increase as the average separate account asset base supporting the underlying minimum death benefit declines. The average separate account asset base has declined in response to poor equity market performance. Additionally, this variance reflects the acceleration of the recognition of unearned fees associated with future reinsurance recoveries. Policy fees from annuity and investment type products decreased by $25 million primarily due to declines in the average separate account asset base resulting generally from poor equity market performance, partially offset by an increase in fees resulting from growth in annuity deposits. Policy fees from annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of average separate account assets. 57 Such assets can fluctuate depending on equity market performance. If average separate account asset levels continue to decline, management expects that policy fees from annuity and investment type products will continue to be adversely impacted, while revenues from insurance fees on variable life products would be expected to rise. Other revenues decreased by $77 million, or 16%, to $418 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $495 million for the comparable 2001 period, largely due to lower commission and fee income associated with a volume decline in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries which is principally due to the depressed equity markets. Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $13 million, or less than 1%, to $5,220 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $5,233 million for the comparable 2001 period. Policyholder benefits and claims for insurance products decreased by $119 million, primarily due to the impact of the aforementioned reinsurance transaction and the establishment of liabilities for the September 11, 2001 tragedies in the previous year. Policyholder benefits and claims for annuity and investment type products increased by $106 million primarily due to an increase in fixed and immediate annuity liabilities, resulting from business growth and an increase in the liability associated with guaranteed minimum death benefits on variable annuities. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $105 million, or 6%, to $1,793 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared with $1,898 for the comparable 2001 period. This decrease was primarily due to the establishment of a $118 million policyholder liability with respect to certain group annuity contracts at New England Financial in 2001. Excluding this policyholder liability, interest credited increased slightly due to an increase in policyholder account balances which is primarily attributable to sales growth partially offset by declines in interest crediting rates. Policyholder dividends increased by $3 million, or less than 1%, to $1,770 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,767 million for the comparable 2001 period due to the increase in the invested assets supporting the policies associated with this segments large block of traditional life insurance business. This increase is partially offset by the approval by the Companys Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2002 of a reduction in the dividend scale to reflect the impact of the current low interest rate environment on the asset portfolios supporting these policies. Other expenses decreased by $118 million, or 4%, to $2,629 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 million from $2,747 for the comparable 2001 period. Excluding the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which are discussed below, other expenses decreased by $118 million, or 4%, to $2,922 million in 2002 from $3,040 million in 2001. Other expenses related to insurance products decreased by $129 million, which is attributable to continued expense management, reductions in volume related commission expenses in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries and a reduction of $62 million related to business realignment expenses incurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by increased pension and post retirement benefit expenses over the comparable period. Other expenses related to annuity and investment type products increased by $11 million. This increase is commensurate with the rise in sales of new annuity and investment type products as well as increased pension and post retirement benefit expenses. This increase is partially offset by the reduction of $37 million of business realignment expenses incurred in 2001. Deferred policy acquisition costs are principally amortized in proportion to gross margins or gross profits, including investment gains or losses. The amortization is allocated to investment gains and losses to provide consolidated statement of income information regarding the impact of investment gains and losses on the amount of the amortization, and other expenses to provide amounts related to gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased by $111 million, or 12%, to $1,037 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $926 million for the comparable 2001 period due to higher sales of annuity and investment type products, resulting in higher commissions and other deferrable expenses. Total amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased by $100 million, or 15%, to $754 million in 2002 from $654 million in 2001. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of $744 million and $633 million is allocated to other expenses in 2002 and 2001, respectively, while the remainder of the amortization in each year 58 is allocated to investment gains and losses. Increases in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs allocated to other expenses of $84 million and $27 million related to insurance products and annuity and investment type products, respectively, are due to the impact of the depressed equity markets and changes in the estimates of future gross profits. In 2002, estimates of future dividend scales, future maintenance expenses, future rider margins, and future reinsurance recoveries were revised. In 2001, estimates of future fixed account interest spreads, future gross margins and profits related to separate accounts and future mortality margins were revised. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 INDIVIDUAL Premiums decreased by $110 million, or 2%, to $4,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $4,673 million for the comparable 2000 period. Premiums from insurance products declined by $108 million. This decrease is primarily due to declines in traditional life insurance policies, which reflects a maturing of that business and a continued shift in customer preference from those policies to variable life products. Premiums from annuity products declined by $2 million, due to lower sales of supplementary contracts with life contingencies and single premium immediate annuity business. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $39 million, or 3%, to $1,260 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,221 million for the comparable 2000 period. Policy fees from insurance products rose by $149 million. This growth is primarily due to increases in variable life products reflecting a continued shift in customer preferences from traditional life products. Policy fees from annuity and investment type products decreased by $110 million, primarily resulting from a lower average separate account asset base. Policy fees from annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of average assets. Such assets can fluctuate depending on equity market performance. Thus, the amount of fees can increase or decrease consistent with movements in average separate account balances. Other revenues decreased by $155 million, or 24%, to $495 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $650 million for the comparable 2000 period, primarily due to reduced commission and fee income associated with lower sales in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries, which was a result of the equity market downturn. Such commission and fee income can fluctuate consistent with movements in the equity market. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $179 million, or 4%, to $5,233 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $5,054 million for the comparable 2000 period. Policyholder benefits and claims for insurance products rose by $192 million primarily due to increases in the liabilities for future policy benefits commensurate with the aging of the in force block of business. In addition, increases of $74 million and $24 million in the policyholder dividend obligation and liabilities and claims associated with the September 11, 2001 tragedies, respectively, contributed to the variance. Partially offsetting these variances is a reduction in policyholder benefits and claims for annuity and investment type products due to a decrease in liabilities for supplemental contracts with life contingencies. Interest credited to policyholder account balances rose by $218 million, or 13%, to $1,898 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,680 million for the comparable 2000 period. Interest on insurance products increased by $165 million, primarily due to the establishment of a policyholder liability of $118 million with respect to certain group annuity contracts at New England Financial. The remainder of the variance is predominantly a result of higher average policyholder account balances. Interest on annuity and investment type products grew by $53 million due to slightly higher crediting rates and higher policyholder account balances stemming from increased sales, including products with a dollar cost averaging type feature. Policyholder dividends increased by $25 million, or 1%, to $1,767 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,742 million for the comparable 2000 period. This is largely attributable to the growth in the assets supporting policies associated with this segments aging block of traditional life insurance business. Other expenses decreased by $265 million, or 9%, to $2,747 for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $3,012 million for the comparable 2000 period. Excluding the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs that are discussed below, other expenses are lower by $121 million, or 4%, to $3,040 million in 2001 from $3,161 million in 2000. Other expenses related to insurance products decreased by $158 million due to continued expense management, primarily due to reduced employee costs and lower discretionary spending. In 59 addition, there were reductions in volume related commission expenses in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries. These decreases are partially offset by an increase of $62 million related to fourth quarter 2001 business realignment initiatives. The annuity and investment type products experienced an increase in other expenses of $37 million primarily due to expenses associated with the business realignment initiatives. Deferred policy acquisition costs are principally amortized in proportion to gross margins and profits, including investment gains or losses. The amortization is allocated to investment gains and losses to provide consolidated statement of income information regarding the impact of investment gains and losses on the amount of the amortization, and to other expenses to provide amounts related to gross margins and profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased by $54 million, or 6%, to $926 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $872 million for the comparable 2000 period. This increase is primarily due to higher sales of variable and universal life insurance policies and annuity and investment type products, resulting in higher commissions and other deferrable expenses. Total amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased by $26 million, or 4%, to $654 million in 2001 from $628 million in 2000. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of $633 million and $723 million is allocated to other expenses in 2001 and 2000, respectively, while the remainder of the amortization in each year is allocated to investment gains and losses. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs allocated to other expenses related to insurance products declined by $48 million due to changes in the estimate of future gross margins and profits. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs allocated to other expenses related to annuity and investment products declined by $42 million due to changes in the estimate of future gross profits. Contributing to this variance are modifications made in the third quarter of 2001 relating to the manner in which estimates of future market performance are developed. These estimates are used in determining unamortized deferred policy acquisition costs balances and the amount of related amortization. The modification reflects an expected impact of past market performance on future market performance, and improves the ability to estimate deferred policy acquisition costs balances and related amortization. 60 INSTITUTIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Institutional segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $ 8,254 $ 7,288 $ 6,900 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 615 592 547 Net investment income................................... 3,928 3,966 3,712 Other revenues.......................................... 609 649 650 Net investment losses................................... (506) (15) (475) Total revenues..................................... 12,900 12,480 11,334 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 9,339 8,924 8,178 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 932 1,013 1,090 Policyholder dividends.................................. 115 259 124 Other expenses.......................................... 1,531 1,746 1,514 Total expenses..................................... 11,917 11,942 10,906 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 983 538 428 Provision for income taxes.............................. 347 179 142 Income from continuing operations....................... 636 359 286 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 123 23 21 Net income.............................................. $ 759 $ 382 $ 307 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 INSTITUTIONAL Premiums increased by $966 million, or 13%, to $8,254 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $7,288 million for the comparable 2001 period. Group insurance premiums increased by $505 million as a result of growth in this segments group life, dental, disability and long term care businesses. Retirement and savings premiums increased by $461 million primarily due to the sale of a significant contract in the second quarter of 2002, as well as new sales throughout 2002 from structured settlements and traditional annuity products. Retirement and savings premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $23 million, or 4%, to $615 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $592 million for the comparable 2001 period. This increase is primarily attributable to a fee resulting from the renegotiation of a portion of a bank owned life insurance contract, as well as growth in existing business in the group universal life product line. Other revenues decreased by $40 million, or 6%, to $609 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $649 million for the comparable 2001 period. Retirement and savings other revenues decreased $73 million primarily due to a reduction in administrative fees as a result of the Companys exit from the large market 401(k) business in late 2001, and lower fees earned on investments in separate accounts resulting generally from poor equity market performance. This decrease is partially offset by a $33 million increase in group insurance due to growth in the administrative service businesses and a settlement received in 2002 related to the Companys former medical business. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $415 million, or 5%, to $9,339 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $8,924 million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is attributable to increases 61 of $238 million and $177 million in group insurance and retirement and savings, respectively. Excluding $291 million of 2001 claims related to the September 11, 2001 tragedies, group insurance policyholder benefits and claims increased by $529 million commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth in this segments group life, dental, disability, and long term care businesses. Excluding $215 million of 2001 policyholder benefits related to the fourth quarter 2001 business realignment initiatives, retirement and savings policyholder benefits increased $392 million, commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth. Interest credited to policyholders decreased by $81 million, or 8%, to $932 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,013 million for the comparable 2001 period. Decreases of $42 million and $39 million in retirement and savings and group insurance, respectively, are primarily attributable to declines in the average crediting rates in 2002 as a result of the current low interest rate environment. Policyholder dividends decreased by $144 million, or 56%, to $115 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $259 million for the comparable 2001 period. This decline is largely attributable to unfavorable mortality experience of several large group clients. Policyholder dividends vary from period to period based on participating contract experience, which are generally recorded in policyholder benefits and claims. Other expenses decreased by $215 million, or 12%, to $1,531 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,746 million in the comparable 2001 period. Retirement and savings decreased by $293 million, primarily attributable to $184 million of accrued expenses related to business realignment initiatives recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 (predominantly related to the Companys exit from the large market 401(k) business), $30 million of which was released into income in the fourth quarter of 2002. In addition, ongoing expenses for the defined contribution product have steadily decreased throughout 2002. The net reduction in retirement and savings is partially offset by an increase in pension and post retirement costs. Group insurance other expenses increased by $78 million. This increase is mainly attributable to growth in operational expenses for the dental and disability products, as well as group insurances non deferrable expenses, including a certain portion of premium taxes and commissions. These variances are commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth. In addition, an increase in pension and post retirement costs contributed to the variance. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 INSTITUTIONAL Premiums increased by $388 million, or 6%, to $7,288 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $6,900 million for the comparable 2000 period. Group insurance premiums grew by $680 million, due, in most part, to sales growth and continued favorable policyholder retention in this segments dental, disability and long term care businesses. In addition, premiums received from several existing group life customers in 2001 and the BMA acquisition contributed $173 million and $29 million, respectively, to this variance. The 2000 balance includes $124 million in additional insurance coverages purchased by existing customers with funds received in the demutualization. Retirement and savings premiums decreased by $292 million, primarily as a result of $270 million in premiums received in 2000 from existing customers. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $45 million, or 8%, to $592 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $547 million for the comparable 2000 period. The rise in fees reflects growth in sales and deposits in group universal life and COLI products. Higher fees in group universal life products represent an increase in insured lives for an existing customer, coupled with a change in a customer preference for group life over optional term products. The increase in corporate owned life insurance represents a $27 million fee received in 2001 from an existing customer. Other revenues decreased by $1 million to $649 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $650 million for the comparable 2000 period. Group insurance other revenues decreased by $19 million. This decline is primarily attributable to the renegotiation of an existing contract with a significant long term care customer, as well as $20 million in final settlements in 2000 on several cases relating to the term life and former medical business. This variance is partially offset by a rise in other revenues stemming from sales growth in this segments dental and disability administrative businesses. Retirement and savings other revenues increased by $18 million, due to $12 million in earnings on seed money and an increase in administrative services fees for the defined contribution group businesses. 62 Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $746 million, or 9%, to $8,924 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $8,178 million for the comparable 2000 period. Group insurance policyholder benefits and claims grew by $778 million, primarily due to growth in this segments group life, dental, disability and long term care insurance businesses, commensurate with the premium variance discussed above. In addition, $291 million in claims related to the September 11, 2001 tragedies contributed to this variance. Retirement and savings policyholder benefits and claims declined by $32 million. A decrease commensurate with the $292 million premium variance discussed above is almost entirely offset by a $215 million increase in policyholder benefits associated with fourth quarter 2001 business realignment initiatives. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $77 million, or 7%, to $1,013 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,090 million for the comparable 2000 period. Retirement and savings decreased by $53 million, or 9%, to $549 million in 2001 from $602 million in 2000, due to a overall decline in crediting rates in 2001 as a result of the low interest rate environment. A $24 million drop in group life is largely attributable to an overall decline in crediting rates in 2001 as a result of the low interest rate environment. The variance in group life was partially dampened by an increase in average customer account balances stemming from asset growth, resulting in $12 million in additional interest credited. Policyholder dividends increased by $135 million, or 109%, to $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $124 million for the comparable 2000 period. The rise in dividends is primarily attributed to favorable experience on a large group life contract in 2001. Policyholder dividends vary from period to period based on insurance contract experience, which are generally recorded in policyholder benefits and claims. Other expenses increased by $232 million, or 15%, to $1,746 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,514 million for the comparable 2000 period. Other expenses related to retirement and savings rose by $121 million, which is largely attributable to $184 million in expenses associated with fourth quarter 2001 business realignment initiatives. This variance is partially offset by a decrease in expenses, due in most part, to expense management initiatives. Group insurance expenses grew by $111 million due primarily to a rise in non deferrable variable expenses associated with premium growth. Non deferrable variable expenses include premium tax, commissions and administrative expenses for dental, disability and long term care businesses. 63 REINSURANCE The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $2,005 $1,762 $1,450 Net investment income...................................... 421 390 379 Other revenues............................................. 43 42 29 Net investment gains (losses).............................. 2 (6) (2) Total revenues........................................ 2,471 2,188 1,856 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 1,554 1,484 1,096 Interest credited to policyholder account balances......... 146 122 109 Policyholder dividends..................................... 22 24 21 Other expenses............................................. 547 439 446 Total expenses........................................ 2,269 2,069 1,672 Income before provision for income taxes and minority interest................................................. 202 119 184 Provision for income taxes................................. 43 27 48 Minority interest.......................................... 75 52 67 Net income................................................. $ 84 $ 40 $ 69 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 REINSURANCE Premiums increased by $243 million, or 14%, to $2,005 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,762 million for the comparable 2001 period. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, particularly in the U.S. and U.K. reinsurance operations, all contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Other revenues remained essentially unchanged at $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 versus $42 million for the comparable 2001 period. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $70 million, or 5%, to $1,554 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,484 million for the comparable 2001 period. Policyholder benefits and claims were 78% of premiums for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to 84% in the comparable 2001 period. The decrease in policyholder benefits and claims as a percentage of premiums is primarily attributable to higher than expected mortality in the U.S. reinsurance operations during the first and fourth quarters of 2001, favorable claims experience in 2002 and the 2001 impact of claims associated with the September 11, 2001 tragedies. In addition, increases in the liabilities for future policyholder benefits and adverse results on the reinsurance of Argentine pension business during 2001 contributed to the decrease. The level of claims may fluctuate from period to period, but exhibits less volatility over the long term. Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $24 million, or 20%, to $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $122 million for the comparable 2001 period. Contributing to this growth were several new deferred annuity reinsurance agreements executed during 2002. The crediting rate on certain blocks of annuities is based on the performance of the underlying assets. Policyholder dividends were essentially unchanged at $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, versus $24 million for the 2001 comparable period. 64 Other expenses increased by $108 million, or 25%, to $547 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $439 million for the comparable 2001 period. The increase in other expenses is primarily attributable to an increase in reinsurance business in the U.K., which is characterized by higher initial reinsurance allowances than those historically experienced in the segment. These expenses fluctuate depending on the mix of the underlying insurance products being reinsured as allowances paid and the related capitalization and amortization can vary significantly based on the type of business and the reinsurance treaty. Minority interest reflects third party ownership interests in RGA. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 REINSURANCE Premiums increased by $312 million, or 22%, to $1,762 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,450 million for the comparable 2000 period. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business all contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Other revenues increased by $13 million, or 45%, to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $29 million for the comparable 2000 period. The increase is due to an increase in fees earned on financial reinsurance, primarily as a result of the acquisition of RGA Financial Group, LLC during the second half of 2000. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $388 million, or 35%, to $1,484 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1,096 million for the comparable 2000 period. Claims experience for the year ended December 31, 2001 includes claims arising from the September 11, 2001 tragedies of approximately $16 million, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers. As a percentage of premiums, policyholder benefits and claims increased to 84% for the year ended December 31, 2001 from 76% for the comparable 2000 period. This increase is attributed primarily to higher than expected mortality in the U.S. reinsurance operations during the first and fourth quarters of 2001, in addition to the claims arising from the terrorist attacks. Additionally, increases for benefits and adverse results on the reinsurance of Argentine pension business contributed to the increase. Mortality is expected to vary from period to period, but generally remains fairly constant over the long term. Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $13 million, or 12%, to $122 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $109 million for the comparable 2000 period. Interest credited to policyholder account balances relates to amounts credited on deposit type contracts and certain cash value contracts. The increase is primarily related to an increase in the underlying account balances due to a new block of single premium deferred annuities reinsured in 2001. Additionally, the crediting rate on certain blocks of annuities is based on the performance of the underlying assets. Therefore, any fluctuations in interest credited related to these blocks are generally offset by a corresponding change in net investment income. Policyholder dividends were essentially unchanged at $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Other expenses decreased by $7 million, or 2%, to $439 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $446 million for the comparable 2000 period. Other expenses, which include underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses, were 20% of segment revenues in 2001 compared with 24% in 2000. This percentage fluctuates depending on the mix of the underlying insurance products being reinsured. Minority interest reflects third party ownership interests in RGA. 65 AUTO & HOME The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Auto & Home segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $2,828 $2,755 $2,636 Net investment income...................................... 177 200 194 Other revenues............................................. 26 22 40 Net investment losses...................................... (46) (17) (20) Total revenues........................................ 2,985 2,960 2,850 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 2,019 2,121 2,005 Other expenses............................................. 793 800 827 Total expenses........................................ 2,812 2,921 2,832 Income before provision (benefit) for income taxes......... 173 39 18 Provision (benefit) for income taxes....................... 41 (2) (12) Net income................................................. $ 132 $ 41 $ 30 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 AUTO & HOME Premiums increased by $73 million, or 3%, to $2,828 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,755 million for the comparable 2001 period. Auto and property premiums increased by $66 million and $1 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in average premium earned per policy resulting from rate increases. The impact on premiums from rate increases was partially offset by an expected reduction in retention and a reduction in new business sales. Premiums from other personal lines increased by $6 million. Other revenues increased by $4 million, or 18%, to $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $22 million for the comparable 2001 period. This increase was primarily due to income earned on a COLI policy purchased in the second quarter of 2002, as well as higher fees on installment payments. These increases were partially offset by an adjustment to a deferred gain related to the disposition of this segments reinsurance business in 1990. Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $102 million, or 5%, to $2,019 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,121 million for the comparable 2001 period. Property policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $120 million due to improved claim frequency, underwriting and agency management actions, and a $41 million reduction in catastrophe losses. Property catastrophes represented 7.4% of the property loss ratio in 2002 compared to 13.5% in 2001. Other policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $10 million due to fewer personal umbrella claims. Fluctuations in these policyholder benefits and claims may not be commensurate with the change in premiums for a given period due to low premium volume and high liability limits. Auto policyholder benefits and claims increased by $28 million largely due to an increase in current year bodily injury and no fault severities. Costs associated with the processing of the New York assigned risk business also contributed to this increase. These increases were partially offset by improved claim frequency resulting from milder winter weather, underwriting and agency management actions, as well as lower catastrophe losses. Other expenses decreased by $7 million, or 1%, to $793 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $800 million for the comparable 2001 period. This decrease is primarily due to reduced employee head count and reduced expenses associated with the consolidation of The St. Paul companies acquired in 1999. These declines are partially offset by an increase in expenses related to the outsourced New York assigned risk business. 66 The effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 differ from the federal corporate tax rate of 35% due to the impact of non taxable investment income. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 AUTO & HOME Premiums increased by $119 million, or 5%, to $2,755 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $2,636 million for the comparable 2000 period. Auto premiums increased by $99 million. Property premiums increased by $17 million. Both increases were largely due to rate increases. Due to increased rate activity, the retention ratio for the existing business declined from 90% to 89%. Premiums from other personal lines increased by $3 million. Other revenues decreased by $18 million, or 45%, to $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $40 million for the comparable 2000 period. This decrease is primarily due to a revision of an estimate made in 2000 of amounts recoverable from reinsurers related to the disposition of this segments reinsurance business in 1990. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $116 million, or 6%, to $2,121 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $2,005 million for the comparable 2000 period. Auto policyholder benefits and claims increased by $62 million due to increased average claim costs, growth in the business and adverse weather in the first quarter of 2001. Despite this increase, the auto loss ratio decreased to 75.9% in 2001 from 76.6% in 2000 as a result of higher premiums per policy. Property policyholder benefits and claims increased by $41 million due to increased non catastrophe weather related losses in 2001. Correspondingly, the property loss ratio increased to 80.7% in 2001 from 76.4% in 2000. Catastrophes represented 13.5% of the loss ratio in 2001 compared to 17.3% in 2000. Other policyholder benefits and claims grew by $13 million, primarily due to an increase in high liability personal umbrella claims. Fluctuations in these policyholder benefits and claims may not be commensurate with the change in premiums for a given period due to low premium volume and high liability limits. Other expenses decreased by $27 million, or 3%, to $800 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $827 million for the comparable 2000 period. This decrease is due to a reduction in integration costs associated with the St. Paul acquisition. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 differ from the federal corporate tax rate of 35% due to the impact of non taxable investment income. ASSET MANAGEMENT The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Asset Management segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Net investment income....................................... $ 59 $ 71 $ 90 Other revenues.............................................. 166 198 760 Net investment (losses) gains............................... (4) 25 Total revenues......................................... 221 294 850 OTHER EXPENSES.............................................. 211 252 749 Income before provision for income taxes and minority interest.................................................. 10 42 101 Provision for income taxes.................................. 4 15 32 Minority interest........................................... 35 Net income.................................................. $ 6 $ 27 $ 34 67 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 ASSET MANAGEMENT Other revenues, which primarily consist of management and advisory fees from third parties, decreased by $32 million, or 16%, to $166 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $198 million for the comparable 2001 period. The most significant factor contributing to this decline is a $31 million decrease resulting from the sale of Conning, which occurred in July 2001. Excluding the impact of this transaction, other revenues remained essentially unchanged at $166 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to $167 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Despite lower average assets under management, revenues remained constant due to performance and incentive fees earned on certain real estate and hedge fund products. The lower assets under management are primarily due to institutional client withdrawals, and the downturn in the equity market. In addition, fourth quarter 2002 product closings and business exits also contributed to this decline. Other expenses decreased by $41 million, or 16%, to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $252 million for the comparable 2001 period. Excluding the impact of the sale of Conning, other expenses decreased by $6 million, or 3%, to $211 million in 2002 from $217 million in 2001. This decrease is due to reductions in marketing related expenses and expenses related to fund reimbursements. In addition, a decrease in amortization of deferred sales commissions resulted from a reduction in sales. These decreases were partially offset by a $5 million increase in employee compensation attributable to severance related expenses resulting from third and fourth quarter 2002 staff reductions. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 ASSET MANAGEMENT Other revenues, which are primarily comprised of management and advisory fees from third parties, decreased by $562 million, or 74%, to $198 million in 2001 from $760 million in 2000. The most significant factors contributing to this decline were a $522 million decrease resulting from the sale of Nvest, which occurred in October 2000, and a $48 million decrease resulting from the sale of Conning, which occurred in July 2001. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other revenues increased by $8 million, or 5%, to $167 million in 2001 from $159 million in 2000. This is attributable to an increase in real estate assets under management that command a higher fee. Assets under management in the remaining Asset Management organization decreased from $56 billion as of December 31, 2000 to $51 billion at December 31, 2001. The decline occurred as a result of the equity market downturn and MetLife institutional customer withdrawals. Third party assets under management registered only a slight decrease of $352 million as a result of the equity market downturn, substantially offset by strong mutual fund sales and the purchase of a real estate portfolio in the second quarter of 2001 comprised of new assets of $1.7 billion. Management and advisory fees are typically calculated based on a percentage of assets under management, and are not necessarily proportionate to average assets managed due to changes in account mix. Other expenses decreased by $497 million, or 66%, to $252 million in 2001 from $749 million in 2000. The sale of Nvest reduced other expenses by $457 million and the sale of Conning reduced other expenses by $55 million. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other expenses increased by $15 million, or 7%, to $217 million in 2001 from $202 million in 2000. This variance is attributable to an increase in total compensation and benefits and an increase in discretionary spending. Compensation and benefits expense totaled $111 million in 2001 and is comprised of approximately 63% base compensation and 37% variable compensation. Base compensation increased by $9 million, or 15%, to $70 million in 2001 from $61 million in 2000, primarily due to higher staffing levels. Variable compensation decreased by $1 million, or 2%, to $41 million in 2001 from $42 million in 2000 due to lower profitability. Variable incentive payments are based upon profitability, investment portfolio performance, new business sales and growth in revenues and profits. The variable compensation plans reward the employees for growth in their businesses, but also require them to share in the impact of any declines. Increased sales commissions arising from higher mutual fund sales in 2001 were largely offset by downward revisions in other variable compensation due to a decline in profits. Other general and administrative expenses increased $7 million, or 7%, to $106 million in 2001 from $99 million in 2000, primarily due to increases in occupancy costs and increased mutual fund reimbursement subsidies. 68 Minority interest, principally reflecting third party ownership interest in Nvest, decreased by $35 million, or 100%, due to the sale of Nvest. INTERNATIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the International segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $1,511 $ 846 $ 660 Universal life and investment type product policy fees..... 144 38 53 Net investment income...................................... 461 267 254 Other revenues............................................. 14 16 9 Net investment (losses) gains.............................. (9) (16) 18 Total revenues........................................ 2,121 1,151 994 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 1,388 689 562 Interest credited to policyholder account balances......... 79 51 56 Policyholder dividends..................................... 35 36 32 Payments to former Canadian policyholders.................. 327 Other expenses............................................. 507 329 292 Total expenses........................................ 2,009 1,105 1,269 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes............ 112 46 (275) Provision for income taxes................................. 28 32 10 Net income (loss).......................................... $ 84 $ 14 $ (285) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 INTERNATIONAL Premiums increased by $665 million, or 79%, to $1,511 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $846 million for the comparable 2001 period. The June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo and the 2001 acquisitions in Chile and Brazil increased premiums by $228 million, $102 million and $8 million, respectively. In addition, a portion of the increase in premiums is attributable to a $108 million increase due to the sale of an annuity contract in the first quarter of 2002 to a Canadian trust company. South Koreas premiums increased by $91 million primarily due to a larger professional sales force and improved agent productivity. Mexicos premiums (excluding Hidalgo), increased by $66 million, primarily due to increases in its group life, major medical and individual life businesses. Excluding the aforementioned sale of an annuity contract, Canadas premiums increased by $26 million due to the restructuring of a pension contract from an investment type product to a long term annuity. Spains and Taiwans premiums increased by $25 million and $13 million, respectively, due primarily to continued growth in the direct auto business and in the individual life insurance business. Hong Kongs premiums increased $5 million primarily due to continued growth in the group life and traditional life businesses. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in Argentinas premiums of $9 million due to the reduction in business caused by the Argentine economic environment. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in other countries. Universal life and investment type product policy fees increased by $106 million, or 279%, to $144 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $38 million for the comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile resulted in increases of $102 million and $5 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a $9 million decrease in Spain due to a reduction in fees caused by a decline in 69 assets under management, as a result of the cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander in 2001. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Other revenues decreased by $2 million, or 13%, to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $16 million for the comparable 2001 period. Canadas other revenues in 2001 included $1 million due primarily to the settlement of two legal cases in 2001. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil had no material impact on this variance. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $699 million, or 101%, to $1,388 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $689 million for the comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile increased policyholder benefits and claims by $224 million and $169 million, respectively. In addition, $108 million of this increase in policyholder benefits and claims is attributable to the aforementioned sale of an annuity contract in Canada. South Koreas, Mexicos (excluding Hidalgo), Taiwans and Spains policyholder benefits and claims increased by $69 million, $67 million, $18 million and $15 million, respectively, commensurate with the overall premium increases discussed above. Excluding the aforementioned sale of an annuity contract, Canadas policyholder benefits and claims increased by $32 million primarily due to the restructuring of a pension contract from an investment type product to a long term annuity. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $28 million, or 55%, to $79 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $51 million for the comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo contributed $51 million. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $17 million in Argentina. This decrease is primarily due to modifications to policy contracts as authorized by the Argentinean government and a reduction of investment type policies in force. In addition, Spains interest credited decreased by $7 million primarily due to a decrease in the assets under management for life products with guarantees associated with the sale of a block of policies to Banco Santander in May 2001. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Policyholder dividends remained essentially unchanged at $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 versus $36 million for the comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil had no material impact on this variance. Other expenses increased by $178 million, or 54%, to $507 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $329 million for the comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil contributed $82 million, $21 million and $5 million, respectively. South Koreas, Mexicos (excluding Hidalgo), and Hong Kongs other expenses increased by $29 million, $19 million and $7 million, respectively. These increases are primarily due to increased non deferrable commissions from higher sales as discussed above, particularly in South Korea where fixed sales compensation is paid to new sales management as part of the professional agency expansion. Argentinas other expenses increased by $9 million due to additional loss recognition in connection with ongoing economic circumstances in the country. Polands other expenses increased by $5 million primarily due to costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2002 associated with the closing of this operation. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 INTERNATIONAL Premiums increased by $186 million, or 28%, to $846 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $660 million for the comparable 2000 period. Mexicos premiums grew by $89 million due to additional sales in group life, major medical and individual life products. Protection type product sales fostered by the continued expansion of the professional sales force in South Korea accounted for an additional $41 million in premiums. Spains premiums rose by $18 million primarily due to continued growth in the direct auto business. Higher individual life sales resulted in an additional $17 million in Taiwanese premiums. The 2001 acquisitions in Brazil and Chile increased premiums by $12 million and $7 million, respectively, in those countries. Hong Kongs premiums grew by $5 million primarily due to continued growth in the direct marketing, group life, and traditional life businesses. These variances were partially offset by a $3 million decline in Argentinean individual 70 life premiums, reflecting the impact of economic and political events in that country. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Universal life and investment type product policy fees decreased by $15 million, or 28%, to $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $53 million for the comparable 2000 period. This decline is primarily attributable to a $19 million reduction in fees in Spain caused by a reduction in assets under management, as a result of a planned cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Other revenues increased by $7 million, or 78%, to $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $9 million for the comparable 2000 period. Argentinas other revenues grew by $5 million primarily due to foreign currency transaction gains in the private pension business, which was introduced in the third quarter of 2001. The required accounting for foreign currency translation fluctuations in Indonesia, a highly inflationary economy, resulted in a $3 million increase in other revenues. These variances were partially offset by a $3 million decrease in Taiwan due to higher group reinsurance commissions received in 2000. The remainder of the increase is attributable to minor variances in several countries. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $127 million, or 23%, to $689 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $562 million for the comparable 2000 period. Mexicos, South Koreas and Taiwans policyholder benefits and claims grew by $74 million, $24 million and $15 million, respectively, commensurate with the overall premium variance discussed above. The 2001 acquisitions in Brazil and Chile contributed $9 million and $7 million, respectively, to this variance. These variances are partially offset by a $7 million decline in Argentinas policyholder benefits and claims as a result of the impact of economic and political events in that country. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $5 million, or 9%, to $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $56 million for the comparable 2000 period. An overall decline in crediting rates on interest sensitive products in 2001 as a result of the low interest rate environment is primarily responsible for a $6 million reduction in South Korea. Spains interest credited dropped by $6 million due to a reduction in assets under management, as a result of a planned cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander. These variances were partially offset by a $2 million increase in both Mexico and Argentina, due to an increase in average customer account balances. Policyholder dividends increased by $4 million, or 13%, to $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $32 million for the comparable 2000 period. The growth in Mexicos group life sales mentioned above resulted in an increase in policyholder dividends of $2 million. Taiwans individual life sales contributed an additional $2 million in policyholder dividends. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. Payments of $327 million related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization were made during the second quarter of 2000 to holders of certain policies transferred to Clarica Life Insurance Company in connection with the sale of a substantial portion of the Companys Canadian operations in 1998. Other expenses increased by $37 million, or 13%, to $329 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $292 million in the comparable 2000 period. Argentinas other expenses rose by $15 million due to a write off of deferred policy acquisition costs, resulting from a revision in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits caused by the anticipated impact of economic and political events in that country. Mexico and South Koreas other expenses grew by $13 million and $10 million, respectively, primarily due to the growth in business in these countries. The 2001 acquisitions in Brazil and Chile contributed $7 million and $3 million, respectively, to this variance. These variances were partially offset by an $11 million decrease in Spains other expenses due to a reduction in payroll, commissions, and administrative expenses as a result of a planned cessation of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries. 71 CORPORATE & OTHER YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 CORPORATE & OTHER Other revenues increased by $16 million, or 19%, to $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $85 million for the comparable 2001 period, primarily due to the sale of a company occupied building, and income earned on COLI purchased during 2002, partially offset by an increase in the elimination of intersegment activity. Other expenses increased by $111 million, or 17%, to $768 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $657 million for the comparable 2001 period, primarily due to increases in legal and interest expenses. The 2002 period includes a $266 million charge to increase the Companys asbestos related liability and expenses to cover costs associated with the resolution of federal government investigations of General Americans former Medicare business. These increases are partially offset by a $250 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover costs associated with the resolution of class action lawsuits and a regulatory inquiry pending against Metropolitan Life, involving alleged race conscious insurance underwriting practices prior to 1973. The increase in interest expenses is primarily due to increases in long term debt resulting from the issuance of $1.25 billion and $1 billion of senior debt in November 2001 and December 2002, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in commercial paper in 2002. In addition, a decrease in the elimination of intersegment activity contributed to the variance. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 CORPORATE & OTHER Other revenues decreased by $6 million, or 7%, to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $91 million for the comparable 2000 period, primarily due the sales of certain subsidiaries in 2000, partially offset by the recognition of a refund earned on a reinsurance treaty in 2001 and a decrease in the elimination of intersegment activity. Demutualization costs of $230 million were incurred during the year ended December 31, 2000. These costs are related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization on April 7, 2000. Other expenses increased by $198 million, or 43%, to $657 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $459 million for the comparable 2000 period. This variance is primarily due to higher legal expenses, expenses associated with MetLife, Inc. shareholder services cost and start up costs relating to MetLifes banking initiatives, as well as a decrease in the elimination of intersegment activity. Legal expenses of $250 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover costs associated with the anticipated resolution of class action lawsuits and a regulatory inquiry pending against Metropolitan Life, involving alleged race conscious insurance underwriting practices prior to 1973. These increases are partially offset by a reduction in interest expenses due to reduced average levels in borrowing and a lower rate environment in 2001. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES THE HOLDING COMPANY Capital Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies Capital. MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository institution subsidiary are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At December 31, 2002, MetLife and its insured depository institution subsidiary were in compliance with the aforementioned guidelines. Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix 72 of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth, and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial markets could limit access to liquidity for the Holding Company. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and term debt transactions, and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. Liquidity Sources Dividends. The primary source of the Holding Companys liquidity is dividends it receives from Metropolitan Life. Under the New York Insurance Law, Metropolitan Life is permitted without prior insurance regulatory clearance to pay a stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of (i) 10% of its statutory surplus as of the immediately preceding calendar year, and (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). Metropolitan Life will be permitted to pay a stockholder dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution. Under the New York Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. The New York Insurance Department (the "Department") has established informal guidelines for such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus on the insurers overall financial condition and profitability under statutory accounting practices. Management of the Holding Company cannot provide assurance that Metropolitan Life will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends or that the Superintendent will not disapprove any dividends that Metropolitan Life must submit for the Superintendents consideration. In addition, the Holding Company also receives dividends from its other subsidiaries. The Holding Companys other insurance subsidiaries are also subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends to their respective parent companies. The dividend limitation is based on statutory financial results. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by the Department, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to deferred policy acquisition costs, certain deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets that it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable fixed maturities. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Holding Company had $1,343 million and $2,981 million in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds, and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2002, the Holding Company had $249 million in short term debt outstanding. At December 31, 2001, the Holding Company had no short term debt outstanding. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Holding Company had $3.3 billion and $2.3 billion in long term debt outstanding, respectively. 73 The Holding Company filed a $4.0 billion shelf registration statement, effective June 1, 2001, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") which permits the registration and issuance of debt and equity securities as described more fully therein. The Holding Company has issued senior debt in the amount of $2.25 billion under this registration statement. In December 2002, the Holding Company issued $400 million 5.375% senior notes due 2012 and $600 million 6.50% senior notes due 2032 and in November 2001, the Holding Company issued $500 million 5.25% senior notes due 2006 and $750 million 6.125% senior notes due 2011. In addition, in February 2003, the Holding Company remarketed under the shelf registration statement $1,006 million aggregate principal amount of debentures previously issued in connection with the issuance of equity security units as part of MetLife, Inc.s initial public offering in April 2000. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed, arranged through Metropolitan Life. Credit Facilities. The Holding Company maintains approximately $1.25 billion in a committed and unsecured credit facility that it shares with Metropolitan Life and MetLife Funding, Inc. ("MetLife Funding") expiring in 2005. If these facilities were drawn upon, they would bear interest at varying rates stated in the agreements. This facility is primarily used as back up lines of credit for its commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life or MetLife Funding had not drawn against this credit facility. Liquidity Uses The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include cash dividends on common stock, service on debt, contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and the repurchase of the Holding Companys common stock. Dividends. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Holding Company declared an annual dividend for 2002 of $0.21 per share. The 2002 dividend represented an increase of $0.01 per share from the 2001 annual dividend of $0.20 per share. Dividends, if any, in any year will be determined by the Holding Companys Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Holding Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Capital Contributions to Subsidiaries. In 2002, the Holding Company contributed $500 million to Metropolitan Life and in 2001, contributed $770 million to Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company ("MIAC"). Share Repurchase. On February 19, 2002, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. This program began after the completion of the March 28, 2001 and June 27, 2000 repurchase programs, each of which authorized the repurchase of $1 billion of common stock. Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. The Holding Company acquired 15,244,492 and 45,242,966 shares of common stock for $471 million and $1,322 million during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. At December 31, 2002 the Holding Company had approximately $806 million remaining on its existing share repurchase authorization. The Company does not anticipate any share repurchases in the first six months of 2003 and any repurchases in the remainder of 2003 will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of the Companys stock. Support Agreements. In 2002, the Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with three of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company, First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. Under the agreements, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million (or, with respect to MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California, $5 million), total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. The capital and surplus of each of these subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 was in excess of the referenced amounts. 74 The Holding Company has agreed to make capital contributions, in any event not to exceed $120 million, to MIAC in the aggregate amount of the excess of (i) the debt service payments required to be made, and the capital expenditure payments required to be made or reserved for, in connection with the affiliated borrowings arranged in December 2001 to fund the purchase by MIAC of certain real estate properties from Metropolitan Life during the two year period following the date of the borrowings, over (ii) the cash flows generated by these properties. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make dividend payments on its common stock, pay all operating expenses and meet other obligations. THE COMPANY Capital Risk Based Capital ("RBC"). Section 1322 of the New York Insurance Law requires that New York domestic life insurers report their RBC based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items, and similar rules apply to each of the Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. Section 1322 gives the Superintendent explicit regulatory authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. At December 31, 2002, Metropolitan Lifes and each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries total adjusted capital was in excess of each of the RBC levels required by each state of domicile. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles (the "Codification"), which is intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments and became effective January 1, 2001. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. The Department required adoption of the Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in New York effective January 1, 2001. Effective December 31, 2002, the Department adopted a modification to its regulations to be consistent with Codification with respect to the admissibility of deferred income taxes by New York insurers, subject to certain limitations. The adoption of the Codification as modified by the Department, did not adversely affect Metropolitan Lifes statutory capital and surplus. Further modifications by state insurance departments may impact the effect of the Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of Metropolitan Life and the Holding Companys other insurance subsidiaries. Liquidity Sources Cash Flow from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company seeks to include provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including guaranteed interest contracts and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable fixed maturities and equity securities. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had $127 billion and $108 billion in liquid assets, respectively. 75 Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds, and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had $1,161 million and $355 million in short term debt outstanding, respectively, and $4,425 million and $3,628 million in long term debt outstanding, respectively. See " The Holding Company Global Funding Sources." MetLife Funding serves as a centralized finance unit for Metropolitan Life. Pursuant to a support agreement, Metropolitan Life has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $10.7 million and $10.6 million, respectively. MetLife Funding raises funds from various funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, to the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of Metropolitan Life and other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of $400 million and $133 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. Credit Facilities. The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $2.43 billion ($1.14 billion expiring in 2003 and $1.29 billion expiring in 2005). If these facilities were drawn upon, they would bear interest at varying rates stated in the agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and also as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, the Company had drawn approximately $28 million under the facilities expiring in 2005 at interest rates ranging from 4.39% to 5.57%. Liquidity Uses Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income taxes, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending activities, investments in real estate, limited partnership and joint ventures, as well as legal liabilities. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations (other than those arising from its ordinary product and investment purchase activities): CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TOTAL 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Long term debt(1)................... $4,460 $ 452 $ 12 $ 397 $604 $ 4 $2,991 Partnership investments............. 1,667 1,667 Company obligated securities(1)..... 1,356 1,006 350 Operating leases.................... 1,399 192 166 149 133 116 643 Mortgage commitments................ 859 859 Total............................... $9,741 $3,170 $178 $1,552 $737 $120 $3,984 (1) Amounts differ from the balances presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, which are shown net of related discounts. On July 11, 2002, an affiliate of the Company elected not to make future payments required by the terms of a non recourse loan obligation. The book value of this loan was $16 million at December 31, 2002. The Companys exposure under the terms of the applicable loan agreement is limited solely to its investment in certain securities 76 held by an affiliate. During the first quarter of 2003 the Company made all previously required and current payments under the terms of the loan. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding approximately $625 million and $473 million in letters of credit from various banks, all of which expire within one year. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements. Support Agreements. In addition to its support agreement with MetLife Funding described above, Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with New England Life Insurance Company ("New England Life") at the time Metropolitan Life acquired New England Life. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause New England Life to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. The agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances. The capital and surplus of New England Life at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was in excess of the referenced amounts. See " Liquidity Sources Global Funding Sources." In connection with the Companys acquisition of GenAmerica, Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with General American Life Insurance Company ("General American"). Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed without limitation as to amount to cause General American to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 180% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. The agreement was subsequently amended to provide that, for the five year period from 2003 through 2007, total adjusted capital must be maintained at a level not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes. The capital and surplus of General American at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was in excess of the referenced amounts. Metropolitan Life has entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with Security Equity Life Insurance Company ("Security Equity"), an insurance subsidiary acquired in the GenAmerica transaction. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed without limitation as to amount to cause Security Equity to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and sufficient liquidity to meet its current obligations. The agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances. The capital and surplus of Security Equity at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was in excess of the referenced amounts. Metropolitan Life has also entered into arrangements for the benefit of some of its other subsidiaries and affiliates to assist such subsidiaries and affiliates in meeting various jurisdictions regulatory requirements regarding capital and surplus and security deposits. In addition, Metropolitan Life has entered into a support arrangement with respect to a subsidiary under which Metropolitan Life may become responsible, in the event that the subsidiary becomes the subject of insolvency proceedings, for the payment of certain reinsurance recoverables due from the subsidiary to one or more of its cedents in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable reinsurance agreements. General American has agreed to guarantee the obligations of its subsidiary, Paragon Life Insurance Company, and certain obligations of its former subsidiaries, Security Equity, MetLife Investors Insurance Company ("MetLife Investors"), First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. In addition, General American has entered into a contingent reinsurance agreement with MetLife Investors. Under this agreement, in the event that MetLife Investors statutory capital and surplus is less than $10 million or total adjusted capital falls below 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, General American would assume as assumption reinsurance, subject to regulatory approvals and required consents, all of MetLife Investors life insurance policies and annuity contract liabilities. The capital and surplus of MetLife Investors at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was in excess of the referenced amounts. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Companys liquidity resources. 77 Litigation. Various litigation claims and assessments against the Company have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses except with respect to certain matters. In some of the matters, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys consolidated financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys operating results or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on debt, make dividend payments on its common stock, pay all operating expenses and meet other obligations. The nature of the Companys diverse product portfolio and customer base lessen the likelihood that normal operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity in 2003. Consolidated cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $4,997 million and $4,512 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $485 million increase in operating cash flow in 2002 over the comparable 2001 period is primarily attributable to sales growth in the group life, dental, disability and long term care businesses, the sale of a significant retirement and savings contract in the second quarter of 2002, as well as additional sales of structured settlements and traditional annuity products. In addition, a large annuity contract sold in the first quarter of 2002 to a Canadian trust company and increased sales in South Korea due to larger professional sales force and improved agent productivity. These increases were partially offset by a contribution by the Company to its defined benefit pension plans in December 2002. Net cash provided by operating activities was $4,512 million and $3,277 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The $1,235 million increase in operating cash flow in 2001 over the 2000 comparable period is primarily attributable to sales growth in the dental, disability, long term care and group life products, partially offset by decreases in the sales of retirement and savings products. An increase in operating cash flows resulted from additional sales of group life, major medical and individual life products in Mexico. Protection type product sales fostered by the continued expansion of the professional sales force accounted for additional premiums from South Korea. Net cash used in investing activities was $16,996 million and $3,165 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $13,831 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2002 over the 2001 comparable period is partly attributable to an increase in investments held as cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program. In addition, the Company invested income generated from operations, cash raised through the issuance of a guaranteed investment contract and cash generated by a company sponsored real estate sales program in various financial instruments, including fixed maturities and mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2001, the Company held cash equivalents that were subsequently invested in bonds and U.S. treasury notes in the first quarter of 2002. Additionally, certain contractholders transferred investments from the separate account to the general account. Net cash used in investing activities also increased due to the acquisition of Hidalgo. Net cash used in investing activities was $3,165 million and $1,232 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities increased $1,933 million in 2001, over the comparable period in 2000, due in large part to the purchase of equity securities as part of the 78 Companys investment in the equity markets following the September 11, 2001 tragedies. The remaining change in investing activities was due to the investment of income generated from the operations of the Company in various financial instruments. Net cash provided by financing activities was $6,849 million and $2,692 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $4,157 million increase in financing activities in 2002 from 2001 was due to a $2,401 million increase in policyholder account balances primarily from sales of annuity products, the issuance of $1,536 million in short term debt. In addition, the Company spent $850 million less in the stock repurchase program in 2002 as compared to 2001. These cash flows are partially offset by a $592 million decrease in long term debt issued. Net cash provided by financing was $2,692 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net cash used in financing was $1,400 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net cash provided by financing activities increased $4,092 million in 2001 from 2000, partially attributable to a $3,514 million increase in policyholder account balances primarily from sales of annuity products, $2,550 million of cash payments to policyholders in 2000 related to the Companys demutualization, the paydown of $2,365 million of short term debt in 2000 and the issuance of $1,393 million in long term debt in 2001. Partially offsetting these activities were the issuance of $4,009 million in common stock in connection with the Companys initial public offering in 2000, $708 million in higher costs associated with the stock repurchase program in 2001 and $772 million in lower proceeds from the issuance of company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities in 2001. INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assessments levied against the Company from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2002 aggregated $2 million. The Company maintained a liability of $62 million at December 31, 2002 for future assessments in respect of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. In the past five years, none of the aggregate assessments levied against MetLifes insurance subsidiaries has been material. The Company has established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS During 2002, the Company adopted or applied the following accounting standards: (i) SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations ("SFAS 141"), (ii) SFAS No. 142 and (iii) SFAS No. 144. In accordance with SFAS 141, the elimination of $5 million of negative goodwill was reported in net income in the first quarter of 2002 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS 142. The Company did not amortize goodwill during 2002. Amortization of goodwill was $47 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Amortization of other intangible assets was not material for the years December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The Company has completed the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. As a result of these tests, the Company recorded a $5 million charge to earnings relating to the impairment of certain goodwill assets in the third quarter of 2002 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. There was no impairment of identified intangible assets or significant reclassifications between goodwill and other intangible assets at January 1, 2002. Adoption of SFAS 144 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements other than the presentation as 79 discontinued operations of net investment income and net investment gains related to operations of real estate on which the Company initiated disposition activities subsequent to January 1, 2002 and the classification of such real estate as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") is deliberating on a proposed statement that would further amend SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 133"). The proposed statement will address certain SFAS 133 Implementation Issues. The proposed statement is not expected to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of APB No. 51 ("FIN 46"). FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 is effective for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of FIN 46 on its consolidated financial statements. Certain disclosure provisions of FIN 46 were required for December 31, 2002 financial statements. Such provisions, which were adopted by the Company, required the disclosure of the total assets and the maximum exposure to loss relating to the Companys interests in variable interest entities. In 2003, the FASB staff is expected to provide transition guidance with respect to the issue of whether embedded derivatives within modified coinsurance agreements need to be accounted for separately. The Company enters into modified coinsurance and certain coinsurance agreements under which assets equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld from the Company and legally owned by the ceding company. The withheld funds are reflected on the Companys balance sheet as funds withheld at interest and totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2002. The Company also cedes business under certain modified coinsurance agreements. As of December 31, 2002, the Company has not separately accounted for any potential embedded derivatives associated with these contracts, which it believes is consistent with GAAP, as well as industry practice. The Company cannot estimate the impact, if any, associated with the adoption of any new FASB guidance expected to be issued in 2003. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure ("SFAS 148"), which provides guidance on how to transition from the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation under Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB 25") to the fair value method of accounting from SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation ("SFAS 123"), if a company so elects. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value method of recording stock options under SFAS 123. In accordance with alternatives available under the transitional guidance of SFAS 148, the Company has elected to apply the fair value method of accounting for stock options prospectively to awards granted subsequent to January 1, 2003. As permitted, options granted prior to January 1, 2003, will continue to be accounted for under APB 25, and the pro forma impact of accounting for these options at fair value will continue to be disclosed in the consolidated financial statements until the last of those options vest in 2005. Had the Company expensed stock options beginning January 1, 2002, the income statement impact would have been approximately $23 million pretax, and $15 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, after tax, in 2002. As the cost of anticipated future option awards is phased in over a three year period, the annual impact in the third year (2005) will rise to approximately $0.07 per diluted share, assuming options are granted in future years at a similar level and under similar market conditions to 2002. The actual impact per diluted share may vary in the event the fair value or the number of options granted increases or decreases from the current estimate, or if the current accounting guidance changes. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 requires entities to establish liabilities for certain types of guarantees, and expands financial statement disclosures for others. Disclosure requirements under FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of annual periods ending 80 after December 15, 2002 and are applicable to all guarantees issued by the guarantor subject to the provisions of FIN 45. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of FIN 45 are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect the initial adoption of FIN 45 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The adoption of FIN 45 requires the Company to include disclosures in its consolidated financial statements related to guarantees. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"), which must be adopted for exit and disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. SFAS 146 will require that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as required by Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a charge of $330 million, net of income taxes of $169 million, associated with business realignment initiatives using the EITF 94 3 accounting guidance. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections ("SFAS 145"). In addition to amending or rescinding other existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings, or describe their applicability under changed conditions, SFAS 145 generally precludes companies from recording gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt as an extraordinary item. SFAS 145 also requires sale leaseback treatment for certain modifications of a capital lease that result in the lease being classified as an operating lease. SFAS 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002, and the initial application of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. INVESTMENTS The Company had total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2002 of $190.7 billion. In addition, the Company had $59.7 billion held in its separate accounts, for which the Company generally does not bear investment risk. The Companys primary investment objective is to maximize net investment income consistent with acceptable risk parameters. The Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and market valuation risk. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and valuation risk through geographic, property type, and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies, product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. 81 The following table summarizes the Companys cash and invested assets at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL Fixed maturities available for sale, at fair value.......................................... $140,553 73.7% $115,398 68.0% Mortgage loans on real estate.................... 25,086 13.2 23,621 13.9 Policy loans..................................... 8,580 4.5 8,272 4.9 Real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment............................ 4,496 2.4 4,054 2.4 Equity securities and other limited partnership interests...................................... 3,743 2.0 4,700 2.8 Other invested assets............................ 3,727 1.9 3,298 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents........................ 2,323 1.2 7,473 4.4 Short term investments........................... 1,921 1.0 1,203 0.7 Real estate held for sale........................ 229 0.1 1,676 1.0 Total cash and invested assets.............. $190,658 100.0% $169,695 100.0% 82 INVESTMENT RESULTS The annualized yields on general account cash and invested assets, excluding net investment gains and losses, were 7.20%, 7.56% and 7.54% for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The following table illustrates the annualized yields on average assets for each of the components of the Companys investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: 2002 2001 2000 YIELD(1) AMOUNT YIELD(1) AMOUNT YIELD(1) AMOUNT (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) FIXED MATURITIES:(2) Investment income.............. 7.46% $ 8,092 7.89% $ 8,031 7.81% $ 7,915 Net investment losses.......... (917) (645) (1,437) Total...................... $ 7,175 $ 7,386 $ 6,478 Ending assets.................. $140,533 $115,398 $112,979 MORTGAGE LOANS:(3) Investment income.............. 7.84% $ 1,883 8.17% $ 1,848 7.87% $ 1,693 Net investment gains (losses)..................... (22) (91) (18) Total...................... $ 1,861 $ 1,757 $ 1,675 Ending assets.................. $ 25,086 $ 23,621 $ 21,951 POLICY LOANS: Investment income.............. 6.49% $ 543 6.56% $ 536 6.45% $ 515 Ending assets.................. $ 8,580 $ 8,272 $ 8,158 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS: Investment income.............. 4.17% $ 232 5.54% $ 279 5.72% $ 288 Net investment losses.......... (5) Total...................... $ 232 $ 274 $ 288 Ending assets.................. $ 4,244 $ 8,676 $ 4,703 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES:(4) Investment income, net of expenses..................... 11.41% $ 637 10.58% $ 584 11.09% $ 629 Net investment gains (losses)..................... 576 (4) 101 Total...................... $ 1,213 $ 580 $ 730 Ending assets.................. $ 4,725 $ 5,730 $ 5,504 EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS: Investment income.............. 2.21% $ 83 2.37% $ 97 4.98% $ 183 Net investment gains (losses)..................... 222 (96) 185 Total...................... $ 305 $ 1 $ 368 Ending assets.................. $ 3,743 $ 4,700 $ 3,845 OTHER INVESTED ASSETS: Investment income.............. 6.42% $ 218 7.60% $ 249 6.30% $ 162 Net investment gains (losses)..................... (206) 79 65 Total...................... $ 12 $ 328 $ 227 Ending assets.................. $ 3,727 $ 3,298 $ 2,821 83 2002 2001 2000 YIELD(1) AMOUNT YIELD(1) AMOUNT YIELD(1) AMOUNT (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) TOTAL INVESTMENTS: Investment income before expenses and fees............ 7.35% $ 11,688 7.72% $ 11,624 7.70% $ 11,385 Investment expenses and fees... (0.15)% (235) (0.16)% (244) (0.16)% (240) Net investment income.......... 7.20% $ 11,453 7.56% $ 11,380 7.54% $ 11,145 Net investment losses.......... (347) (762) (1,104) Adjustments to investment losses(5).................... 145 134 54 Gains from sales of subsidiaries................. 25 660 Total...................... $ 11,251 $ 10,777 $ 10,755 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized gains and losses, and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude collateral associated with the Companys securities lending program. (2) Included in fixed maturities are equity linked notes of $834 million, $1,004 million and $1,232 million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which include an equity like component as part of the notes return. Investment income for fixed maturities includes prepayment fees and income from the securities lending program. Fixed maturity investment income has been reduced by rebates paid under the securities lending program. (3) Investment income from mortgage loans on real estate includes prepayment fees. (4) Real estate and real estate joint venture income is shown net of depreciation of $227 million, $220 million and $224 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Real estate and real estate joint venture income includes amounts classified as discontinued operations of $124 million, $125 million and $121 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These amounts are net of depreciation of $48 million, $79 million and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net investment gains include $582 million of gains classified as discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2002. (5) Adjustments to investment gains and losses include amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, charges and credits to participating contracts, and adjustments to the policyholder dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses. FIXED MATURITIES Fixed maturities consist principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 73.7% and 68.0% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, public fixed maturities represented $121,191 million, or 86.2%, and $96,579 million, or 83.7%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed maturities represented $19,362 million, or 13.8%, and $18,819 million, or 16.3%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company invests in privately placed fixed maturities to (i) obtain higher yields than can ordinarily be obtained with comparable public market securities, (ii) provide the Company with protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral, and (iii) increase diversification. However, the Company may not freely trade its privately placed fixed maturities because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid markets. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counter party. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. 84 The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories called "NAIC designations." The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys Investors Services ("Moodys"), or rated "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors ("S&P")) by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or rated "BB+" or lower by S&P). The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturities by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations designation and the equivalent ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 DECEMBER 31, 2001 RATING AGENCY AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF DESIGNATION(1) COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Aaa/Aa/A............................ $ 91,250 $ 97,495 69.4% $ 72,098 $ 75,265 65.2% Baa................................. 29,345 31,060 22.1 29,128 29,581 25.6 Ba.................................. 7,413 7,304 5.2 6,021 5,856 5.1 B................................... 3,463 3,227 2.3 3,205 3,100 2.7 Caa and lower....................... 434 339 0.2 726 597 0.5 In or near default.................. 430 416 0.3 327 237 0.2 Subtotal............................ 132,335 139,841 99.5 111,505 114,636 99.3 Redeemable preferred stock.......... 817 712 0.5 783 762 0.7 Total fixed maturities.............. $133,152 $140,553 100.0% $112,288 $115,398 100.0% (1) Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. Based on estimated fair values, investment grade fixed maturities comprised 91.5% and 90.8% of total fixed maturities in the general account at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The following table shows the amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturities, by contractual maturity dates (excluding scheduled sinking funds) at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 AMORTIZED ESTIMATED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE COST FAIR VALUE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less.................... $ 4,592 $ 4,662 $ 4,001 $ 4,049 Due after one year through five years...... 26,200 27,354 20,168 20,841 Due after five years through ten years..... 23,297 24,987 22,937 23,255 Due after ten years........................ 35,507 38,452 30,778 32,248 Subtotal.............................. 89,596 95,455 77,884 80,393 Mortgage backed and asset backed securities............................... 42,739 44,386 33,621 34,243 Subtotal.............................. 132,335 139,841 111,505 114,636 Redeemable preferred stock................. 817 712 783 762 Total fixed maturities................ $133,152 $140,553 $112,288 $115,398 Actual maturities may differ as a result of prepayments by the issuer. 85 The Company diversifies its fixed maturities by security sector. The following tables set forth the amortized cost, gross unrealized gain or loss and estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturities by sector, as well as the percentage of the total fixed maturities holdings that each security sector is comprised at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) U.S. corporate securities.............. $ 47,021 $3,193 $ 957 $ 49,257 35.0% Mortgage backed securities............. 33,256 1,649 22 34,883 24.8 Foreign corporate securities........... 18,001 1,435 207 19,229 13.7 U.S. treasuries/agencies............... 14,373 1,565 4 15,934 11.3 Asset backed securities................ 9,483 228 208 9,503 6.8 Foreign government securities.......... 7,012 636 52 7,596 5.4 State and political subdivisions....... 2,580 182 20 2,742 2.0 Other fixed income assets.............. 609 191 103 697 0.5 Total bonds....................... 132,335 9,079 1,573 139,841 99.5 Redeemable preferred stocks............ 817 12 117 712 0.5 Total fixed maturities............ $133,152 $9,091 $1,690 $140,553 100.0% DECEMBER 31, 2001 GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) U.S. corporate securities.............. $ 43,141 $1,470 $ 748 $ 43,863 38.0% Mortgage backed securities............. 25,506 866 192 26,180 22.7 Foreign corporate securities........... 16,836 688 539 16,985 14.7 U.S. treasuries/agencies............... 8,297 1,031 43 9,285 8.0 Asset backed securities................ 8,115 154 206 8,063 7.0 Foreign government securities.......... 5,488 544 37 5,995 5.2 State and political subdivisions....... 2,248 68 21 2,295 2.0 Other fixed income assets.............. 1,874 238 142 1,970 1.7 Total bonds....................... 111,505 5,059 1,928 114,636 99.3 Redeemable preferred stocks............ 783 12 33 762 0.7 Total fixed maturities............ $112,288 $5,071 $1,961 $115,398 100.0% Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities. The Company monitors fixed maturities to identify investments that management considers to be problems or potential problems. The Company also monitors investments that have been restructured. The Company defines problem securities in the fixed maturities category as securities with principal or interest payments in default, securities to be restructured pursuant to commenced negotiations, or securities issued by a debtor that has entered into bankruptcy. The Company defines potential problem securities in the fixed maturity category as securities of an issuer deemed to be experiencing significant operating problems or difficult industry conditions. The Company uses various criteria, including the following, to identify potential problem securities: debt service coverage or cash flow falling below certain thresholds which vary according to the issuers industry and other relevant factors; 86 significant declines in revenues or margins; violation of financial covenants; public securities trading at a substantial discount as a result of specific credit concerns; and other subjective factors. The Company defines restructured securities in the fixed maturities category as securities to which the Company has granted a concession that it would not have otherwise considered but for the financial difficulties of the obligor. The Company enters into a restructuring when it believes it will realize a greater economic value under the new terms rather than through liquidation or disposition. The terms of the restructuring may involve some or all of the following characteristics: a reduction in the interest rate, an extension of the maturity date, an exchange of debt for equity or a partial forgiveness of principal or interest. The following table presents the estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed maturities classified as performing, potential problem, problem and restructured at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Performing....................................... $139,717 99.4% $114,879 99.6% Potential problem................................ 450 0.3 386 0.3 Problem.......................................... 358 0.3 111 0.1 Restructured..................................... 28 0.0 22 0.0 Total....................................... $140,553 100.0% $115,398 100.0% Fixed Maturity Impairment. The Company classifies all of its fixed maturities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described below, about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to, the following: The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below amortized cost; The potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties, including a review of all securities of the issuer, including its known subsidiaries and affiliates, regardless of the form of the Companys ownership; The potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; The potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; The potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; and Other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. 87 The Company records writedowns as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Writedowns of fixed maturities were $1,264 million and $273 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Companys three largest writedowns totaled $352 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The circumstances that gave rise to these impairments were financial restructurings or bankruptcy filings. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company sold fixed maturity securities with a fair value of $14,597 million at a loss of $894 million. The gross unrealized loss related to the Companys fixed maturities at December 31, 2002 was $1,690 million. These fixed maturities mature as follows: 17% due in one year or less; 19% due in greater than one year to five years; 18% due in greater than five years to ten years; and 46% due in greater than ten years (calculated as a percentage of amortized cost). Additionally, such securities are concentrated by security type in U.S. corporates (57%), asset backed (12%) and foreign corporates (12%); and are concentrated by industry in utilities (20%), finance (18%), transportation (12%) and communications (10%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 23% of the $23,402 million of the fair value and 48% of the $1,690 million gross unrealized loss on fixed maturities. The following table presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized losses and number of securities for fixed maturities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED COST LOSSES NUMBER OF SECURITIES LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR 20% MORE 20% MORE 20% MORE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Less than six months........... $16,733 $1,622 $569 $531 791 160 Six months or greater but less than nine months............. 1,008 433 53 156 91 25 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months........... 3,212 87 175 31 170 11 Twelve months or greater....... 1,885 112 128 47 170 21 Total..................... $22,838 $2,254 $925 $765 1,222 217 The Companys review of its fixed maturities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. The first two categories have generally been adversely impacted by the downturn in the financial markets, overall economic conditions and continuing effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedies. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment, and often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. 88 The following table presents the total gross unrealized losses for fixed maturities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED % OF LOSSES TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Less than 20%............................................... $ 925 54.7% 20% or more for less than six months........................ 531 31.4 20% or more for six months or greater....................... 234 13.9 Total.................................................. $1,690 100.0% The category of fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by less than 20% is comprised of 1,222 securities with an amortized cost of $22,838 million and a gross unrealized loss of $925 million. These fixed maturities mature as follows: 19% due in one year or less; 19% due in greater than one year to five years; 17% due in greater than five years to ten years; and 45% due in greater than ten years (calculated as a percentage of amortized cost). Additionally, such securities are concentrated by security type in U.S. corporates (51%) and foreign corporates (17%); and are concentrated by industry in finance (28%), utilities (14%) and communications (11%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 21% of the $21,913 million fair value and 33% of the $925 million gross unrealized loss. The category of fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months is comprised of 160 securities with an amortized cost of $1,622 million and a gross unrealized loss of $531 million. These fixed maturities mature as follows: 4% due in one year or less; 16% due in greater than one year to five years; 23% due in greater than five years to ten years; and 57% due in greater than ten years (calculated as a percentage of amortized cost). Additionally, such securities are concentrated by security type in U.S. corporates (66%) and asset backed (21%); and are concentrated by industry in utilities (34%), transportation (20%) and asset backed (20%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 53% of the $1,091 million fair value and 59% of the $531 million gross unrealized loss. The category of fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater is comprised of 57 securities with an amortized cost of $632 million and a gross unrealized loss of $234 million. These fixed maturities mature as follows: 13% due in greater than one year to five years; 27% due in greater than five years to ten years; and 60% due in greater than ten years (calculated as a percentage of amortized cost). Additionally, such securities are concentrated by security type in U.S. corporates (58%), foreign governments (17%) and asset backed (16%); and are concentrated by industry in communications (26%), foreign government (17%), asset backed (16%), utilities (15%) and transportation (13%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 74% of the $398 million fair value and 78% of the $234 million gross unrealized loss. The Company held 19 fixed maturity securities each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002 greater than $10 million. Seven of these securities represent 54% of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. The estimated fair value and gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002 for these securities were $202 million and $125 million, respectively. These securities were concentrated in the U.S. corporate sector. The Company analyzed, on a case by case basis, each of the seven fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2002 to determine if the securities were other than temporarily impaired. The Company believes that the estimated fair value of these securities, which were concentrated in the utility and transportation industries, were artificially depressed as a result of unusually strong negative market reaction in this sector and generally poor economic and market conditions. The Company believes that the analysis of each such security indicated that the financial strength, liquidity, leverage, future outlook and or recent management actions support the view that the security was not other than temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2002. 89 Corporate Fixed Maturities. The table below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate bond holdings at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Industrial....................................... $29,077 42.5% $26,295 43.2% Utility.......................................... 7,219 10.5 7,296 12.0 Finance.......................................... 12,596 18.4 10,027 16.5 Yankee/Foreign(1)................................ 19,229 28.1 16,985 27.9 Other............................................ 365 0.5 245 0.4 Total....................................... $68,486 100.0% $60,848 100.0% (1) Includes publicly traded, U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors, known as Yankee bonds, and other foreign investments. The Company diversifies its corporate bond holdings by industry and issuer. The portfolio has no exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of its total invested assets. At December 31, 2002, the Companys combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the greatest exposure totaled $2,973 million, which was less than 2% of the Companys total invested assets at such date. The exposure to the largest single issuer of corporate bonds the Company held at December 31, 2002 was $385 million. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, investments of $14,778 million and $13,734 million, respectively, or 76.9% and 80.9%, respectively, of the Yankee/Foreign sector, represented exposure to traditional Yankee bonds. The balance of this exposure was primarily U.S. dollar denominated and concentrated by security type in industrial and financial institutions. The Company diversifies the Yankee/Foreign portfolio by country and issuer. The Company does not have material exposure to foreign currency risk in its invested assets. In the Companys international insurance operations, both its assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. Foreign currency denominated securities supporting U.S. dollar liabilities are generally swapped back into U.S. dollars. The Companys exposure to future deterioration in the economic and political environment in Brazil and Argentina, with respect to its Brazilian and Argentine related investments (including local insurance operations), is limited to the net carrying value of those assets, which totaled approximately $357 million and $150 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2002. The net carrying value of the Companys Brazilian and Argentine related investments is net of writedowns for other than temporary impairments. Mortgage Backed Securities. The following table shows the types of mortgage backed securities the Company held at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Pass through securities.......................... $12,515 35.9% $ 9,676 37.0% Collateralized mortgage obligations.............. 15,511 44.5 11,140 42.5 Commercial mortgage backed securities............ 6,857 19.6 5,364 20.5 Total....................................... $34,883 100.0% $26,180 100.0% At December 31, 2002 and 2001, pass through and collateralized mortgage obligations totaled $28,026 million and $20,816 million, respectively, or 80.4% and 79.5%, respectively, of total mortgage backed securities, 90 and a majority of this amount represented agency issued pass through and collateralized mortgage obligations guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, approximately $3,598 million and $2,866 million, respectively, or 52.5% and 53.4%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage backed securities, and $27,590 million and $20,249 million, respectively, or 98.4% and 97.3%, respectively, of the pass through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P. The principal risks inherent in holding mortgage backed securities are prepayment, extension and collateral risks, which will affect the timing of when cash will be received. The Companys active monitoring of its mortgage backed securities mitigates exposure to losses from cash flow risk associated with interest rate fluctuations. Asset Backed Securities. Asset backed securities, which include home equity loans, credit card receivables, collateralized debt obligations and automobile receivables, are purchased both to diversify the overall risks of the Companys fixed maturity assets and to provide attractive returns. The Companys asset backed securities are diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. Home equity loans constitute the largest exposure in the Companys asset backed securities investments. Except for asset backed securities backed by home equity loans, the asset backed security investments generally have little sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Approximately $4,912 million and $3,341 million, or 51.7% and 41.4%, of total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural, credit and capital market risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks include consumer or corporate credits such as credit card holders, equipment lessees, and corporate obligors. Capital market risks include the general level of interest rates and the liquidity for these securities in the marketplace. Structured investment transactions. The Company participates in structured investment transactions as part of its risk management strategy, including asset/liability management, and to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. These investments are predominantly made through bankruptcy remote special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which generally acquire financial assets, including corporate equities, debt securities and purchased options. These investments are referred to as "beneficial interests." The Companys exposure to losses related to these SPEs is limited to its carrying value since the Company has not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the SPEs. As prescribed by GAAP, the Company does not consolidate such SPEs since unrelated third parties hold controlling interests through ownership of the SPEs equity, representing at least three percent of the total assets of the SPE throughout the life of the SPE, and such equity class has the substantive risks and rewards of the residual interests in the SPE. The Company sponsors financial asset securitizations of high yield debt securities, investment grade bonds and structured finance securities and is also the collateral manager and a beneficial interest holder in such transactions. As the collateral manager, the Company earns a management fee on the outstanding securitized asset balance. When the Company transfers assets to an SPE and surrenders control over the transferred assets, the transaction is accounted for as a sale. Gains or losses on securitizations are determined with reference to the cost or amortized cost of the financial assets transferred, which is allocated to the assets sold and the beneficial interests retained based on relative fair values at the date of transfer. The Company has sponsored five securitizations with a total of approximately $1,323 million in financial assets as of December 31, 2002. Two of these transactions included the transfer of assets totaling approximately $289 million in 2001, resulting in the recognition of an insignificant amount of investment gains. The Companys beneficial interests in these SPEs as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the related investment income for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 were insignificant. The Company also invests in structured investment transactions, which are managed and controlled by unrelated third parties. In instances where the Company exercises significant influence over the operating and financial policies of an SPE, the beneficial interests are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of 91 accounting. Where the Company does not exercise significant influence, the structure of the beneficial interests (i.e., debt or equity securities) determines the method of accounting for the investment. Such beneficial interests generally are structured notes, which are classified as fixed maturities, and the related income is recognized using the retrospective interest method. Beneficial interests other than structured notes are also classified as fixed maturities, and the related income is recognized using the level yield method. The carrying value of all such structured investments, including SPEs, was approximately $870 million and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The related investment income recognized on SPEs was $1 million, $44 million and $62 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE The Companys mortgage loans on real estate are collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. Mortgage loans on real estate comprised 13.2% and 13.9% of the Companys total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage loans on real estate is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances. The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys mortgage loans on real estate by type at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Commercial......................................... $19,552 78.0% $17,959 76.0% Agricultural....................................... 5,146 20.5 5,268 22.3 Residential........................................ 388 1.5 394 1.7 Total......................................... $25,086 100.0% $23,621 100.0% Commercial Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type, and manages these investments through a network of regional offices overseen by its investment department. The following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REGION South Atlantic..................................... $ 5,076 26.0% $ 4,729 26.3% Pacific............................................ 4,180 21.4 3,593 20.0 Middle Atlantic.................................... 3,441 17.6 3,248 18.1 East North Central................................. 2,147 11.0 2,003 11.2 New England........................................ 1,323 6.8 1,198 6.7 West South Central................................. 1,097 5.6 1,021 5.7 Mountain........................................... 833 4.2 733 4.1 West North Central................................. 645 3.3 727 4.0 International...................................... 632 3.2 526 2.9 East South Central................................. 178 0.9 181 1.0 Total......................................... $19,552 100.0% $17,959 100.0% 92 DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) PROPERTY TYPE Office............................................. $ 9,340 47.8% $ 8,293 46.2% Retail............................................. 4,320 22.1 4,208 23.4 Apartments......................................... 2,793 14.3 2,553 14.2 Industrial......................................... 1,910 9.7 1,813 10.1 Hotel.............................................. 942 4.8 864 4.8 Other.............................................. 247 1.3 228 1.3 Total......................................... $19,552 100.0% $17,959 100.0% The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the Companys commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less............................ $ 713 3.6% $ 840 4.7% Due after one year through two years............... 1,204 6.2 677 3.8 Due after two years through three years............ 1,939 9.9 1,532 8.5 Due after three years through four years........... 2,048 10.5 1,772 9.9 Due after four years through five years............ 2,443 12.5 2,078 11.6 Due after five years............................... 11,205 57.3 11,060 61.5 Total......................................... $19,552 100.0% $17,959 100.0% Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Mortgage Loans. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on a continual basis. Through this monitoring process, the Company reviews loans that are restructured, delinquent or under foreclosure and identifies those that management considers to be potentially delinquent. These loan classifications are generally consistent with those used in industry practice. The Company defines restructured mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. This definition provides for loans to exit the restructured category under certain conditions. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The Company reviews all mortgage loans at least annually. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness. The Company also reviews loan to value ratios and debt coverage ratios for restructured loans, delinquent loans, loans under foreclosure, potentially delinquent loans, loans with an existing valuation allowance, loans maturing within two years and loans with a loan to value ratio greater than 90% as determined in the prior year. The principal risks in holding commercial mortgage loans are property specific, supply and demand, financial and capital market risks. Property specific risks include the geographic location of the property, the physical condition of the property, the diversity of tenants and the rollover of their leases and the ability of the property manager to attract tenants and manage expenses. Supply and demand risks include changes in the supply 93 and or demand for rental space which cause changes in vacancy rates and or rental rates. Financial risks include the overall level of debt on the property and the amount of principal repaid during the loan term. Capital market risks include the general level of interest rates, the liquidity for these securities in the marketplace and the capital available for loan refinancing. The Company has a $525 million non recourse mortgage loan on a high profile office complex that has been affected by the September 11, 2001 tragedies, causing the obligor to impair its investment in the property. The Company continues to be in discussions with the borrower concerning the borrowers ownership interest in the property. A change in circumstances could result in a borrower default, MetLife classifying the loan as impaired or the transfer of ownership of the property to the Company. The Company did not classify this loan as a problem or potential problem as of December 31, 2002 since the obligor is performing as agreed and the estimated collateral value provides sufficient coverage for the loan. Based on the Companys current estimate that the propertys market value exceeds the loan balance, the Company would not record a loss in accordance with SFAS No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairments of a Loan ("SFAS 114") in the event the loan was classified as impaired. The Company establishes valuation allowances for loans that it deems impaired, as determined through its mortgage review process. The Company defines impaired loans consistent with SFAS 114 as loans which it probably will not collect all amounts due according to applicable contractual terms of the agreement. The Company bases valuation allowances upon the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate or the value of the loans collateral. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains or losses. The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 DECEMBER 31, 2001 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Performing......................... $19,343 98.3% $ 60 0.3% $17,495 96.6% $ 52 0.3% Restructured....................... 246 1.3 49 19.9% 448 2.5 55 12.3% Delinquent or under foreclosure.... 14 0.1 0.0% 14 0.1 7 50.0% Potentially delinquent............. 68 0.3 10 14.7% 136 0.8 20 14.7% Total.......................... $19,671 100.0% $119 0.6% $18,093 100.0% $134 0.7% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for commercial mortgage loans for the: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $134 $ 76 $ 69 Additions................................................... 38 84 61 Deductions for writedowns and dispositions.................. (53) (26) (54) Balance, end of year........................................ $119 $134 $ 76 Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic region and product type. The Company manages these investments through a network of regional offices and field professionals overseen by its investment department. 94 Approximately 63.5% of the $5,146 million of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2002 were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans generally is successfully renegotiated and remains outstanding to maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans. The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 DECEMBER 31, 2001 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Performing................... $4,980 96.7% $ 0.0% $5,055 95.8% $3 0.1% Restructured................. 140 2.7 5 3.6% 188 3.6 3 1.6% Delinquent or under foreclosure................ 14 0.3 0.0% 29 0.5 2 6.9% Potentially delinquent....... 18 0.3 1 5.6% 5 0.1 1 20.0% Total.................... $5,152 100.0% $6 0.1% $5,277 100.0% $9 0.2% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans for the: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $ 9 $ 7 $ 18 Additions................................................... 3 21 8 Deductions for writedowns and dispositions.................. (6) (19) (19) Balance, end of year........................................ $ 6 $ 9 $ 7 The principal risks in holding agricultural mortgage loans are property specific, supply and demand, and financial and capital market risks. Property specific risks include the geographic location of the property, soil types, weather conditions and the other factors that may impact the borrowers guaranty. Supply and demand risks include the supply and demand for the commodities produced on the specific property and the related price for those commodities. Financial risks include the overall level of debt on the property and the amount of principal repaid during the loan term. Capital market risks include the general level of interest rates, the liquidity for these securities in the marketplace and the capital available for loan refinancing. 95 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES The Companys real estate and real estate joint venture investments consist of commercial and agricultural properties located primarily throughout the U.S. The Company manages these investments through a network of regional offices overseen by its investment department. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale was $4,725 million and $5,730 million, respectively, or 2.5% and 3.4% of total cash and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint ventures is stated at the Companys equity in the real estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation allowances. The following table presents the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures, real estate held for sale and real estate acquired upon foreclosure at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF TYPE VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Real estate held for investment.................... $4,116 87.1% $3,698 64.5% Real estate joint ventures held for investment..... 377 8.0 356 6.2 Foreclosed real estate held for investment......... 3 0.1 0.0 4,496 95.2 4,054 70.7 Real estate held for sale.......................... 222 4.7 1,627 28.4 Foreclosed real estate held for sale............... 7 0.1 49 0.9 229 4.8 1,676 29.3 Total real estate and real estate joint ventures... $4,725 100.0% $5,730 100.0% Office properties, representing 58% and 63% of the Companys equity real estate portfolio at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, are well diversified geographically, principally within the United States. The average occupancy level of office properties was 92% and 91% at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Ongoing management of these investments includes quarterly valuations, as well as an annual market update and review of each propertys budget, financial returns, lease rollover status and the Companys exit strategy. The Company adjusts the carrying value of real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the property may not be recoverable. The Company writes down impaired real estate to estimated fair value, when the carrying value of the real estate exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flow expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate. The Company records writedowns as investment losses and reduces the cost basis of the properties accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. The current real estate equity portfolio is mainly comprised of a core portfolio of multi tenanted office buildings with high tenant credit quality, net leased properties and apartments. The objective is to maximize earnings by building upon and strengthening the core portfolio through selective acquisitions and dispositions. In light of this objective, the Company took advantage of a significant demand for Class A, institutional grade properties and, as a result, sold certain real estate holdings in its portfolio during 2002. This sales program, which was substantially completed during 2002, does not represent any fundamental change in the Companys investment strategy. Once the Company identifies a property that is expected to be sold within one year and commences a firm plan for marketing the property, in accordance with SFAS 144, the Company classifies the property as held for sale and reports the related net investment income and any resulting investments gains and losses as discontinued operations. Further, the Company establishes and periodically revises, if necessary, a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying value of the property to its expected sales value, less associated selling costs, if it is lower than the propertys carrying value. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses and subsequent 96 adjustments as investment gains or losses. If circumstances arise that were previously considered unlikely and, as a result, the property is expected to be on the market longer than anticipated, a held for sale property is reclassified to held for investment and measured as such. The Companys carrying value of real estate and real estate joint ventures held for sale, including real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, in the amounts of $229 million and $1,676 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, are net of impairments of $82 million and $177 million, respectively, and net of valuation allowances of $16 million and $35 million, respectively. The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure. EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS The Companys carrying value of equity securities, which primarily consist of investments in common stocks, was $1,348 million and $3,063 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Substantially all of the common stock is publicly traded on major securities exchanges. The carrying value of the other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the U.S. and overseas) was $2,395 million and $1,637 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company classifies its investments in common stocks as available for sale and marks them to market, except for non marketable private equities, which are generally carried at cost. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor interest, has influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies and does not have a controlling interest. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually no influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies. The Companys investments in equity securities excluding partnerships represented 0.7% and 1.8% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Equity securities include, at December 31, 2002 and 2001, $443 million and $329 million, respectively, of private equity securities. The Company may not freely trade its private equity securities because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid markets. During the year ended December 31, 2001, two exchangeable subordinated debt securities matured, resulting in a gross gain of $44 million on the equity exchanged in satisfaction of the note. In February 2002, the remaining exchangeable debt security issued to the Company matured. The debt security was satisfied for cash, and no equity was exchanged. The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1,667 million and $1,898 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The following tables set forth the cost, gross unrealized gain or loss and estimated fair value of the Companys equity securities, as well as the percentage of the total equity securities at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Equity Securities: Common stocks.............................. $ 877 $115 $79 $ 913 67.7% Nonredeemable preferred stocks............. 426 13 4 435 32.3 Total equity securities................. $1,303 $128 $83 $1,348 100.0% 97 DECEMBER 31, 2001 GROSS UNREALIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Equity Securities: Common stocks.............................. $1,968 $657 $78 $2,547 83.2% Nonredeemable preferred stocks............. 491 28 3 516 16.8 Total equity securities................. $2,459 $685 $81 $3,063 100.0% Problem and Potential Problem Equity Securities and Other Limited Partnership Interests. The Company monitors its equity securities and other limited partnership interests on a continual basis. Through this monitoring process, the Company identifies investments that management considers to be problems or potential problems. Problem equity securities and other limited partnership interests are defined as securities (i) in which significant declines in revenues and or margins threaten the ability of the issuer to continue operating, or (ii) where the issuer has entered into bankruptcy. Potential problem equity securities and other limited partnership interests are defined as securities issued by a company that is experiencing significant operating problems or difficult industry conditions. Criteria generally indicative of these problems or conditions are (i) cash flows falling below varying thresholds established for the industry and other relevant factors, (ii) significant declines in revenues and or margins, (iii) public securities trading at a substantial discount compared to original cost as a result of specific credit concerns, and (iv) other information that becomes available. Equity Security Impairment. The Company classifies all of its equity securities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described below, about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to, the following: The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost; The potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties, including a review of all securities of the issuer, including its known subsidiaries and affiliates, regardless of the form of the Companys ownership; The potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; The potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; The potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; and Other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. Equity securities or other limited partnership interests which are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired are written down to fair value. The Company records writedowns as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for 98 subsequent recoveries in value. Writedowns of equity securities and other limited partnership interests were $191 million and $142 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company sold equity securities with an estimated fair value of $915 million and $1,311 million at a loss of $85 million and $41 million, respectively. The gross unrealized loss related to the Companys equity securities at December 31, 2002 was $83 million. Such securities are concentrated by security type in common stock (61%) and mutual funds (35%); and are concentrated by industry in financial (59%) and domestic broad market mutual funds (34%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). The following table presents the costs, gross unrealized losses and number of securities for equity securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED NUMBER OF COST LOSSES SECURITIES LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR 20% MORE 20% MORE 20% MORE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Less than six months........... $298 $292 $25 $58 27 23 Six months or greater but less than nine months............. 49 19 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months........... Twelve months or greater....... 18 15 Total........................ $365 $292 $25 $58 61 23 The Companys review of its equity security exposure includes the analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. The first two categories have generally been adversely impacted by the downturn in the financial markets, overall economic conditions and continuing effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedies. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment, and often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. The following table presents the total gross unrealized losses for equity securities at December 31, 2002 where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by: DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS UNREALIZED % OF LOSSES TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Less than 20%............................................... $25 30.1% 20% or more for less than six months........................ 58 69.9 20% or more for six months or greater....................... Total..................................................... $83 100.0% The category of equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost by less than 20% is comprised of 61 equity securities with a cost of $365 million and a gross unrealized loss of $25 million. These securities are concentrated by security type in mutual funds (78%); and concentrated by industry in domestic broad market mutual funds (78%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). The significant factors considered at December 31, 2002 in the review of equity securities for other than temporary 99 impairment were the unusual and severely depressed market conditions, the instability of the global economy and the lagging effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedies. The category of equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for less than six months is comprised of 23 equity securities with a cost of $292 million and a gross unrealized loss of $58 million. These securities are concentrated by security type in common stock (80%) and mutual funds (15%); and concentrated by industry in financial (80%) and domestic broad market mutual funds (15%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). The significant factors considered at December 31, 2002 in the review of equity securities for other than temporary impairment were the unusual and severely depressed market conditions, the instability of the global economy and the lagging effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedies. The Company held two equity securities with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2002 greater than $5 million. Neither of these securities represented gross unrealized losses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. OTHER INVESTED ASSETS The Companys other invested assets consist principally of leveraged leases and funds withheld at interest of $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The leveraged leases are recorded net of non recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions, which are diversified by geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms and may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio. The Companys other invested assets represented 1.9% of cash and invested assets at both December 31, 2002 and 2001. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company uses derivative instruments to manage risk through one of four principal risk management strategies: the hedging of liabilities, invested assets, portfolios of assets or liabilities and anticipated transactions. Additionally, Metropolitan Life enters into income generation and replication derivative transactions as permitted by its derivatives use plan that was approved by the Department. The Companys derivative strategy employs a variety of instruments, including financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate, credit default and foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards, written covered calls and options, including caps and floors. 100 The table below provides a summary of the notional amount and fair value of derivative financial instruments held at: DECEMBER 31, 2002 DECEMBER 31, 2001 FAIR VALUE FAIR VALUE NOTIONAL NOTIONAL AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Financial futures........................... $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate swaps......................... 3,866 196 126 1,823 73 9 Floors...................................... 325 9 325 11 Caps........................................ 8,040 7,890 5 Financial forwards.......................... 1,945 12 Foreign currency swaps...................... 2,371 92 181 1,925 188 26 Options..................................... 78 9 1,880 8 12 Foreign currency forwards................... 54 1 67 4 Written covered calls....................... 40 Credit default swaps........................ 376 2 270 Total contractual commitments............. $17,059 $308 $320 $14,220 $289 $47 SECURITIES LENDING The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $14,873 million and $11,416 million and an estimated fair value of $17,625 million and $12,066 million were on loan under the program at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $17,862 million and $12,661 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Security collateral on deposit from customers may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. SEPARATE ACCOUNT ASSETS The Company manages each separate accounts assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The Company establishes separate accounts on a single client and multi client commingled basis in conformity with insurance laws. Generally, separate accounts are not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account assets are subject to the Companys general account claims only to the extent that the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities, as defined by the accounts contract. If the Company uses a separate account to support a contract providing guaranteed benefits, the Company must comply with the asset maintenance requirements stipulated under Regulation 128 of the Department. The Company monitors these requirements at least monthly and, in addition, performs cash flow analyses, similar to that conducted for the general account, on an annual basis. The Company reports separately as assets and liabilities investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts. The Company reports substantially all separate account assets at their fair market value. Investment income and gains or losses on the investments of separate accounts accrue directly to contractholders, and, accordingly, the Company does not reflect them in its consolidated statements of income and cash flows. The Company reflects in its revenues fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department, several asset/liability committees and 101 additional specialists at the business segment level. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. MARKET RISK EXPOSURES The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same interest rate exposure (medium and long term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. The Company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Companys products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. Equity prices. The Companys investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. The Company also manages equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation techniques. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities and equity securities and through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies which create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are Canadian dollars, Euros, Mexican pesos, Chilean pesos and British pounds. The Company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily exposed to the Euro, Mexican peso and South Korean won. The Company has denominated substantially all assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries in their respective local currencies, thereby minimizing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate risk management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports directly to Metropolitan Lifes Chief Actuary. The Corporate Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Audit Committee of the Holding Companys board of directors and various financial and non financial senior management committees. 102 Asset/liability management. At MetLife, asset/liability management is the responsibility of the General Account Portfolio Management Department ("GAPM"), the operating business segments and various GAPM boards. The GAPM boards are comprised of senior officers from the investment department, senior managers from each business segment and the Chief Actuary. The GAPM boards duties include setting broad asset/ liability management policy and strategy, reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits, and providing oversight of the portfolio management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the GAPM boards. The goals of the investment process are to optimize after tax, risk adjusted investment income and after tax, risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The risk management objectives established by the GAPM boards stress quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. Each of MetLifes business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The Company has developed models of its in force business that reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. New York Insurance Department regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of the annual proof of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves to meet adverse interest rate scenarios. Hedging activities. MetLifes risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives that are used to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities to reduce interest rate risk. Such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, floors, options, written covered calls and caps. MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. Economic Capital. Beginning in 2003, the Company has changed its methodology of allocating capital from Risk Based Capital to Economic Capital. In 2002 and in prior years, the Companys business segments allocated equity was primarily based on Risk Based Equity, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the NAIC Statutory Risk Based Capital and includes certain GAAP accounting adjustments. Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The Economic Capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory Risk Based Capital formula which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of different companies businesses. This change in methodology will be applied prospectively and will impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the Companys business segments. A portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This methodology change of allocating equity will not impact the Companys consolidated net investment income or net income. 103 RISK MEASUREMENT; SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts ("other financial instruments"), based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2002 to re price its invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of MetLifes market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non trading invested assets and other financial instruments. The Company does not maintain a trading portfolio. The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: Fair values. The Company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Companys currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates; and the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices. Earnings and cash flows. MetLife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage backed securities; the re estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest 104 rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2002 and 2001. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the Companys equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2002 and 2001 is set forth in the table below. The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys portfolio, all of which is non trading, for the periods indicated was: DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Interest rate risk.......................................... $2,710 $3,430 Equity price risk........................................... $ 120 $ 228 Foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 529 $ 426 The change in potential loss in fair value related to market risk exposure between December 31, 2002 and 2001 was primarily attributable to a shift in the yield curve. 105 
 
