ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For purposes of this discussion, the terms "MetLife" or the "Company" refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life"). Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements which constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and other similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the Company. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors; (iii) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (iv) MetLife, Inc.s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (v) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life; (vi) catastrophe losses; (vii) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (viii) regulatory, accounting or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the Companys products or services; (ix) downgrades in the Companys and its affiliates claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (x) changes in rating agency policies or practices; (xi) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the Companys products and establishing the liabilities for the Companys obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (xii) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xiv) the Companys ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; and (xv) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.s filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including its S 1 and S 3 registration statements. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update 42 or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ECONOMIC CAPITAL Beginning in 2003, the Company changed its methodology of allocating capital to its business segments from Risk Based Capital ("RBC") to Economic Capital. Prior to 2003, the Companys business segments allocated equity was primarily based on RBC, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") Statutory Risk Based Capital and included certain adjustments in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The Economic Capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Companys businesses. The change in methodology is being applied prospectively. This change has and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the Companys business segments. A portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This change in methodology of allocating equity does not impact the Companys consolidated net investment income or net income. The following table presents actual and pro forma net investment income with respect to the Companys segments for the year ended December 31, 2002. The amounts shown as pro forma reflect net investment income that would have been reported in 2002 had the Company allocated capital based on Economic Capital rather than on the basis of RBC. NET INVESTMENT INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 ACTUAL PRO FORMA (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Institutional............................................... $ 3,909 $ 3,971 Individual.................................................. 6,237 6,148 Auto & Home................................................. 177 160 International............................................... 461 424 Reinsurance................................................. 421 382 Corporate & Other........................................... (22) 98 Total..................................................... $11,183 $11,183 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS On January 31, 2005, the Holding Company completed the sale of SSRM Holdings, Inc. ("SSRM") to a third party for $328 million of cash and stock. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of approximately $150 million, net of income taxes, comprised of a realized gain of $166 million, net of income taxes, and an operating expense related to a lease abandonment of $16 million, net of income taxes. Under the terms of the agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive, prior to the end of 2006, additional payments aggregating up to approximately 25% of the base purchase price, based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife related business. The Company has reclassified the assets, liabilities and operations of SSRM into discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the sale of SSRM resulted in the elimination of the Companys Asset Management segment. The remaining asset management business, which is insignificant, has been reclassified into Corporate & Other. The Companys discontinued 43 operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 also includes expenses of approximately $20 million, net of income taxes, related to the sale of SSRM. In 2003, a subsidiary of the Company, Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA"), entered into a coinsurance agreement under which it assumed the traditional U.S. life reinsurance business of Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America ("Allianz Life"). The transaction added approximately $278 billion of life reinsurance in force, $246 million of premium and $11 million of income before income tax expense, excluding minority interest expense, in 2003. The effects of such transaction are included within the Reinsurance segment. In 2002, the Company acquired Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), an insurance company based in Mexico with approximately $2.5 billion in assets as of the date of acquisition (June 20, 2002). During the second quarter of 2003, as a part of its acquisition and integration strategy, the International segment completed the legal merger of Hidalgo into its original Mexican subsidiary, Seguro Genesis, S.A., forming MetLife Mexico, S.A. As a result of the merger of these companies, the Company recorded $62 million of earnings, net of income taxes, from the merger and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in reserve methodology. Such benefit was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 in the International segment. See " Subsequent Events" below. SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) investment impairments; (ii) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; (iii) application of the consolidation rules to certain investments; (iv) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; (v) the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"), including value of business acquired ("VOBA"); (vi) the liability for future policyholder benefits; (vii) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters; and (viii) accounting for reinsurance transactions and employee benefit plans. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from those estimates. INVESTMENTS The Companys principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage and other loans and real estate, all of which are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks are those associated with the recognition of impairments and income, as well as the determination of fair values. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Companys ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on asset backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. In 44 addition, the earnings on certain investments are dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned due to changing interest rates or equity markets. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. In addition, the Company enters into certain structured investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary and, therefore, may be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entitys expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party. DERIVATIVES The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions primarily to manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in fair values related to the Companys financial assets and liabilities. The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its currency exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign operations. The Company also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance policies and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. The associated financial statement risk is the volatility in net income which can result from (i) changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as accounting hedges; (ii) ineffectiveness of designated hedges; and (iii) counterparty default. In addition, there is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation are not identified and reported at fair value in the consolidated financial statements. Accounting for derivatives is complex, as evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting standards which continue to evolve, as well as the significant judgments and estimates involved in determining fair value in the absence of quoted market values. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate in the circumstances. Such assumptions include estimated volatility and interest rates used in the determination of fair value where quoted market values are not available. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. These costs, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of that business, are deferred. The recovery of such costs is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates of gross margins and profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in the impairment of the asset and a charge to income if estimated future gross margins and profits are less than amounts deferred. In addition, the Company utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a common industry practice, in its determination of the amortization of DAC, including VOBA. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but that it does change when large interim deviations have occurred. LIABILITY FOR FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM EXPENSES The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities and non medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of 45 liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns and inflation. The Company also establishes liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty claim insurance which represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and in the establishment of liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. REINSURANCE The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company must determine if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company must review all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. LITIGATION The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys consolidated financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables used to determine amounts recorded. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal and financial personnel. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS The Company sponsors pension and other retirement plans in various forms covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the Company. Management determines these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, historical performance of the plan and its assets, and consultation with an independent consulting actuarial firm. These assumptions used by the Company may 46 differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY MetLife, Inc., through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services to individual and institutional customers. The Company offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance and retail banking services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance, and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. The MetLife companies serve individuals in approximately 13 million households in the United States and provide benefits to 37 million employees and family members through their plan sponsors including 88 of the top one hundred FORTUNE(R) 500 companies. Outside the United States, the MetLife companies serve approximately 9 million customers through direct insurance operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Mexico, South Korea, Taiwan and Uruguay. MetLife is organized into five operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home, International and Reinsurance, as well as Corporate & Other. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 The Company reported $2,758 million in net income and diluted earnings per share of $3.65 for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $2,217 million in net income and diluted earnings per share of $2.94 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Continued top line revenue growth across all of the Companys business segments, strong interest rate spreads and an improvement in net investment gains (losses) are the leading contributors to the 24% increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 over the comparable 2003 period. Total premiums, fees and other revenues increased to $26.4 billion, up 8%, from the year ended December 31, 2003, primarily from continued sales growth across most of the Companys business segments, as well as the positive impact of the U.S. financial markets on policy fees. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. Continued strong investment spreads are largely due to higher than expected net investment income from corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. In addition, an improvement in net investment gains (losses), net of income taxes, of $485 million is primarily due to the more favorable economic environment in 2004. These increases are partially offset by an $86 million, net of income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in 2004 recorded in accordance with Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts ("SOP 03 1"). In comparison, in the 2003 period the Company recorded a $26 million charge for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting in accordance with FASB Statement 133 Implementation Issue B36 ("Issue B36"). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 The marketplace for financial services is extremely competitive. MetLife reported $2,217 million in net income and diluted earnings per share of $2.94 for the year ended December 31, 2003. In 2003, after a three year economic slowdown, there were improvements in both the credit and equity markets. At the same time, interest rates remained at historic lows and the S&P 500 Index was up 26% for the year. Total premiums and fees increased to $23.2 billion, up 9% over the prior year, which primarily stems from continued sales growth across most of the Companys segments, as well as the positive impact of the U.S. financial markets on policy fees. Assets under management grew to $350.2 billion, up 17% over the prior year, and Individual annuity deposits grew to $11.2 billion, up 42% over the prior year. MetLife generated over $11 billion of net investment income while adhering to rigorous asset liability management principles and portfolio diversification. An increase in expenses year over year is primarily attributable to employee related expenses, including pension and postretirement benefit expense and severance, expenses associated with strengthening the Companys 47 distribution systems and taking action in consolidating office space and reducing redundancies, while continuing to invest heavily in infrastructure. In addition, regulatory capital increased and the Company repurchased stock through its buyback program. INDUSTRY TRENDS The Companys segments continue to be influenced by a variety of industry trends and the Company believes that each of its businesses is well positioned to capitalize on those trends. In general, the Company sees more employers, both large and small, outsourcing their benefits functions. Further, companies are offering broader arrays of voluntary benefits to help retain employees while adding little to their overall benefits costs. The Company believes that these trends will likely continue and in fact expand across companies of all sizes. Employers are also demanding substantial online access for their employees for various self service functions. This functionality requires substantial information technology investment that smaller companies will find difficult to absorb. This will put pressure on those smaller and mid size companies to gain scale quickly or exit the business. Additionally, the Company is seeing a continuing trend of employers moving to defined contribution plans over defined benefit plans. In addition, alternative benefit structures, such as simple fixed benefit products, are becoming more popular as the cost of traditional medical indemnity products has continued to increase rapidly. These low cost fixed benefit products can provide effective catastrophic protection for high cost illnesses to supplement the basic health coverage provided by medical indemnity insurance. From a demographics standpoint, the bulk of the United States population is moving from an asset accumulation phase to an asset distribution phase. People within ten years of retirement hold significant assets. With continually lengthening lifespans and unstructured asset distribution, the Company believes many of these people may outlive their retirement savings and or require long term care. As a result, the Company expects that the demand for retirement payout solutions with guarantees will increase dramatically over the next decade. In each of these demographic scenarios, the quality of the guarantee will be a key driver of growth. The Company believes that these guarantees will be evaluated through balance sheet strength, the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of the guarantor, as well as the reputation of the Company. The Company believes that in each of these comparisons, it will be at a distinct advantage versus the industry on average. The Company expects that these trends will continue to favor those with scale, breadth of distribution and product, ability to provide advice and financial strength to support long term guarantees. 48 DISCUSSION OF RESULTS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums.................................................... $22,316 $20,673 $19,077 Universal life and investment type product policy fees...... 2,900 2,496 2,147 Net investment income....................................... 12,418 11,539 11,183 Other revenues.............................................. 1,198 1,199 1,166 Net investment gains (losses)............................... 182 (582) (892) Total revenues......................................... 39,014 35,325 32,681 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims............................ 22,662 20,665 19,373 Interest credited to policyholder account balances.......... 2,998 3,035 2,950 Policyholder dividends...................................... 1,814 1,975 1,942 Other expenses.............................................. 7,761 7,091 6,813 Total expenses......................................... 35,235 32,766 31,078 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.............................................. 3,779 2,559 1,603 Provision for income taxes.................................. 1,071 660 490 Income from continuing operations........................... 2,708 1,899 1,113 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes.... 136 344 492 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting... 2,844 2,243 1,605 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes..................................................... (86) (26) Net income.................................................. $ 2,758 $ 2,217 $ 1,605 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 THE COMPANY Income from continuing operations increased by $809 million, or 43%, to $2,708 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $1,899 million in the comparable 2003 period. Income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 includes the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $113 million, net of income taxes, to the year ended December 31, 2004 and a benefit of $159 million, net of income taxes, to the comparable 2003 period. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $855 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior 2003 period. This increase is primarily the result of an improvement in net investment gains (losses), net of income taxes, of $485 million. Also contributing to the increase is higher earnings from interest rate spreads of approximately $302 million, net of income taxes, in the Institutional and Individual segments. Additionally, the Individual segment contributed $154 million, net of income taxes, as a result of increased income from policy fees on investment type products partially offset by higher amortization associated with DAC of $74 million, net of income taxes, and a reduction in earnings of $78 million, net of income taxes, resulting from an increase in the closed block policyholder dividend obligation. In addition, the Auto & Home segments earnings increased primarily due to an improved non catastrophe combined ratio and favorable claim development related to prior accident years of $113 million, net of income taxes. This increase was partially offset by higher catastrophe losses of $73 million, net of income taxes. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $2,046 million, or 8%, to $26,414 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $24,368 million from the comparable 2003 period. The Institutional segment 49 contributed 55% to the year over year increase. This increase stems largely from sales growth and the acquisitions of new businesses in the group life and the non medical health & other businesses, as well as an increase in structured settlements sales and pension close outs. The Reinsurance segment contributed approximately 35% to the Companys year over year increase in premium, fees and other revenues. This growth is primarily attributable to this segments coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life and continued growth in its traditional life reinsurance operations. The Individual segment contributed 5% to the year over year increase primarily due to higher fee income, partially offset by a reduction in the Companys closed block premiums as the business continues to run off. Interest rate spreads, which generally represent the margin between net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances, increased across the Institutional and Individual segments during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior year period. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees for which the timing and amount are generally unpredictable, and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. If interest rates remain low, it could result in compression of the Companys interest rate spreads on several of its products, which provide guaranteed minimum rates of return to policyholders. This compression could adversely impact the Companys future financial results. Underwriting results in the Institutional and Individual segments in the year ended December 31, 2004 were less favorable compared to the 2003 period. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality and morbidity trends, claim experience and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business, and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results in the Auto & Home segment were favorable in 2004 as the combined ratio declined to 90.4%, excluding catastrophes, from 97.1% in the prior year period. This result is largely due to continued improvement in both auto and homeowner claim frequencies, lower auto severities and an increase in average earned premiums. Other expenses increased by $670 million, or 9%, to $7,761 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $7,091 million for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 period reflects a $49 million reduction of a premium tax liability and a $22 million reduction of a liability for interest associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. These decreases were partially offset by a $50 million contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. The 2003 period includes the impact of a $144 million reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement. In addition, the 2003 period includes a $48 million charge related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial and a $45 million charge related to VOBA associated with a change in reserve methodology in the Companys International segment. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other expenses increased by $640 million, or 9%, from the comparable 2003 period. The Reinsurance segment contributed 35% to this year over year variance primarily due to the growth in expenses with Allianz Life and continued revenue growth, as mentioned above. In addition, 27% of this variance is primarily attributable to increases in direct business support expenses and non deferrable commission expenses associated with general business growth, as well as infrastructure improvements, partially offset by costs in 2003 associated with office consolidations and an impairment of assets in the Institutional segment. The Individual segment contributed 22% to this increase primarily due to accelerated DAC amortization, as well as an increase in expenses associated with general business growth. The remainder of the increase is the result of general business growth across the remaining segments and Corporate & Other. Net investment gains (losses) increased by $764 million, or 131%, to a net investment gain of $182 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from a net investment loss of ($582) million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily due to the more favorable economic environment in 2004. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $1,071 million, or 28% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $660 million, or 26%, for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a decrease in the deferred tax valuation allowance to recognize the effect of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards 50 in South Korea, and the contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. In addition, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of $91 million for the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of $9 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2003. The 2003 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, and tax benefits related to the sale of foreign subsidiaries. In addition, the 2003 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of $36 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2002. The income from discontinued operations is comprised of the operations of SSRM and net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company has classified as available for sale. The Company entered into an agreement to sell SSRM during the third quarter of 2004. As previously discussed, SSRM was sold effective January 31, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, decreased $208 million, or 60%, to $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $344 million for the comparable 2003 period. The decrease is primarily due to lower recognized net investment gains from real estate properties sold in 2004 as compared to the prior year. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized $139 million and $420 million of net investment gains, respectively, from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an $86 million charge, net of income taxes, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting in accordance with SOP 03 1, which provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. This charge is primarily related to those long duration contract liabilities where the amount of the liability is indexed to the performance of a target portfolio of investment securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a $26 million charge, net of income taxes, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting in accordance with Issue B36. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 THE COMPANY Income from continuing operations increased by $786 million, or 71%, to $1,899 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $1,113 million in the comparable 2002 period. Income from continuing operations for the years 2003 and 2002 includes the impact of certain transactions or events that result in net income not being indicative of future earnings, which are described in the applicable segments results of operations discussions. These items contributed a benefit of $159 million, net of income taxes, in 2003 and a charge of $150 million, net of income taxes, in 2002. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $477 million in 2003 compared to the prior year. Declines in net investment losses account for $197 million, net of income taxes, of this increase with the balance being contributed by the Companys operations. The decline in net investment losses is largely attributable to less credit related losses, which is consistent with the U.S. financial market environment. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased 9% over the prior year primarily as a result of growth in the annuities, retirement & savings and variable and universal life product lines. This increase stems in part from policy fee income earned on annuity deposits, which were $11.2 billion in 2003, increasing 42% from the prior year. In addition, the annuity separate account balance was $28.7 billion at December 31, 2003, up 57% versus the prior year end. Growth in retirement & savings is primarily attributable to higher sales in structured settlement products. Fee income from variable and universal life products increased 12% over the prior year primarily as a result of a 25% growth in separate account balances. In addition, the coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life in the Reinsurance segment contributed approximately 1% to the year over year increase. Partially offsetting these increases is a decline in traditional life premiums, which is largely attributable to run off in the Companys closed block of business. Investment margins, which represent the spread between net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances, remained favorable in 2003 as the Company took appropriate crediting rate 51 reductions in most products in an effort to keep pace with the market environment. In several product lines, where investment margins are a substantial part of earnings, the Company still has a reasonable amount of flexibility to reduce crediting rates further if portfolio yields were to decline from year end 2003 levels. Investment margins in 2003 did benefit from higher than expected levels of prepayments. Underwriting results varied in 2003. The group life mortality ratio continues to be favorable at 92%. The Individual life mortality ratio was also solid at 88%, which includes the impact of several large claims in the variable and universal product line, some of which had lower levels of reinsurance. Group disabilitys morbidity ratio increased to 98.5%, from 97.9% in the prior year but is still within managements expected range. The Auto & Home combined ratio, which is a measure of both the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, as well as the expense ratio, remained favorable at 97.1% excluding catastrophes. The Companys International segment increased its loss recognition reserve in Taiwan as a result of low interest rates relative to product guarantees. This action resulted in a $19 million charge, net of income taxes. Other expenses increased 4% over the prior year period primarily as a result of an increase of $133 million in pension and postretirement expenses. As a result of contributions made to the pension plan in late 2003 and early 2004, which totaled approximately $750 million, and the stronger performance of the pension plan assets in 2003, the Company anticipates the pension and postretirement expenses to moderate in 2004. Other expenses in 2003 also include the impact of several actions taken by management in the fourth quarter, including lease terminations, office consolidations and closures, and asset impairments. In addition, severance costs and expenses associated with strategic initiatives at New England Financial contributed to the increase in expenses year over year. Also, there was an increase in many of the product lines volume related expenses, which are in line with 2003 business growth. Net investment losses decreased by $310 million, or 35%, to $582 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $892 million for the comparable 2002 period. This improvement is primarily due to lower credit related losses. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $660 million, or 26% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting, compared with $490 million, or 31%, for the comparable 2002 period. The 2003 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a recovery of prior year tax overpayments on tax exempt bonds, and an adjustment consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2002. In addition, the 2003 effective tax rate includes a reduction of the deferred tax valuation allowance related to certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and tax benefits related to the sale and merger of foreign subsidiaries reflected in the International segment. The 2002 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, partially offset by the inability to utilize tax benefits on certain foreign capital losses. The income from discontinued operations is comprised of the operations of SSRM and net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company has classified as available for sale. The Company sold SSRM on January 31, 2005. Income from discontinued operations declined $148 million, or 30%, to $344 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $492 million in the comparable prior year period. The decrease is primarily due to lower recognized net investment gains from real estate properties sold in 2003 as compared to the prior year. For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company recognized $420 million and $582 million of net investment gains, respectively, from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale. The Company changed its method of accounting for embedded derivatives in certain insurance products as required by new accounting guidance which became effective on October 1, 2003, and recorded the impact as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. 52 INSTITUTIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Institutional segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $10,103 $ 9,093 $ 8,245 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 717 635 624 Net investment income................................... 4,472 4,028 3,909 Other revenues.......................................... 632 592 609 Net investment gains (losses)........................... 186 (293) (488) Total revenues........................................ 16,110 14,055 12,899 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 11,134 9,843 9,345 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 960 915 932 Policyholder dividends.................................. 107 198 115 Other expenses.......................................... 1,907 1,784 1,531 Total expenses........................................ 14,108 12,740 11,923 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 2,002 1,315 976 Provision for income taxes.............................. 681 477 344 Income from continuing operations....................... 1,321 838 632 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 10 37 127 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting............................................ 1,331 875 759 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes.......................................... (60) (26) Net income.............................................. $ 1,271 $ 849 $ 759 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INSTITUTIONAL Income from continuing operations increased by $483 million, or 58%, to $1,321 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $838 million for the comparable 2003 period. An improvement of $241 million, net of income taxes, in net investment gains (losses), net of adjustments of $63 million to policyholder benefit and claims related to net investment gains (losses), is a significant component of the increase. In addition, favorable interest rate spreads contributed $225 million, net of income taxes, to the increase compared to the prior year period, with the retirement & savings products generating $183 million, net of income taxes, of this increase. Higher investment yields, growth in the asset base and lower average crediting rates are the primary drivers of the year over year increase in interest rate spreads. These spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased to 2.06%, 1.66% and 1.88% for group life, retirement & savings and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively, from 2.04%, 1.40% and 1.51% for the group life, retirement & savings, and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively, in the comparable prior year period. Management generally expects these spreads to be in the range of 1.60% to 1.80%, 1.30% to 1.45%, and 1.30% to 1.50% for the group life, retirement & savings, and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including 53 business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees for which the timing and amount are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may fluctuate from period to period. Also contributing to the increase in income from continuing operations is a reduction in a premium tax liability of $31 million in the second quarter of 2004, net of income taxes. These increases in income from continuing operations are partially offset by less favorable underwriting results, which are estimated to have declined $30 million, net of income taxes, compared to the prior year period. Management attributes approximately $20 million, net of income taxes, of this decrease to mixed claim experience in the non medical health & other business. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality and morbidity trends, as well as claim experience and, as a result, can fluctuate from year to year. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,576 million, or 11%, to $15,924 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $14,348 million for the comparable 2003 period. Growth of $1,132 million in premiums, fees, and other revenues contributed to the revenue increase. A $480 million increase in premiums, fees and other revenues in the non medical health & other business compared to the prior year is partly due to the continued growth in long term care of $148 million, of which $41 million is related to the 2004 acquisition of TIAA/CREFs long term care business. Growth in the small market products, disability business, and dental business contributed $305 million to the year over year increase. Group life insurance premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $461 million, which management primarily attributes to improved sales and favorable persistency, as well as the acquisition of the John Hancock group life insurance business in late 2003, which contributed $20 million to the increase. Retirement & savings premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $191 million, which is largely due to a growth in premiums of $172 million, resulting primarily from an increase in structured settlement sales and pension close outs. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement & savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions, and as a result, can fluctuate from year to year. In addition, an increase of $444 million in net investment income, which is primarily due to higher income from growth in the asset base, earnings on corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees contributed to the overall increase in revenues. This increase is a component of the favorable interest rate spreads discussed above. Total expenses increased by $1,368 million, or 11%, to $14,108 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $12,740 million for the comparable 2003 period. Policyholder benefits and claims combined with policyholder dividends increased by $1,200 million to $11,241 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $10,041 million for the comparable prior year period. This increase is primarily attributable to a $459 million, $461 million, and $280 million increase in the group life, non medical health & other and retirement & savings businesses, respectively. These increases are predominately attributable to the business growth discussed in the revenue discussion above. The increases in group life and the non medical health & other businesses include the impact of the acquisition of certain businesses from John Hancock and TIAA/ CREF of $11 million and $39 million, respectively. Also included in the increase is the impact of less favorable claim experience, primarily in the non medical health & other business. Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $45 million over the prior year period primarily as a result of the impact of growth in guaranteed interest contracts within the retirement & savings business. Other operating expenses increased $123 million. The largest component of this expense growth is an increase of $97 million related to increases in direct business support expenses. In addition, non deferrable commissions and premium taxes increased by $25 million. This is net of a $49 million reduction in a premium tax liability in the second quarter of 2004. Excluding this item, non deferrable commissions and premium taxes increased by $74 million, which is commensurate with the aforementioned revenue growth. In addition, the Company incurred infrastructure improvement costs of $34 million and expenses of $12 million related to the closing of one of the Companys disability claims centers which were partially offset by a decline of $45 million primarily relating to expenses incurred in the prior year for office closures and consolidations and an impairment of related assets. 54 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 INSTITUTIONAL Income from continuing operations increased by $206 million, or 33%, to $838 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $632 million for the comparable 2002 period. Revenue growth combined with favorable underwriting results and interest margins contributed to the year over year increase. Lower net investment losses in 2003 versus 2002 contributed $124 million, net of income taxes, to the year over year increase. Favorable underwriting experience was partially offset by an increase in expenses associated with office closures and other consolidations, as well as an increase in pension and postretirement benefit costs. In addition, the prior year period includes a $20 million, net of income taxes, benefit from the reduction of a previously established liability for the Companys 2001 business realignment initiatives and a $17 million, net of income taxes, benefit from the reduction of a previously established liability for disability insurance related losses from the September 11, 2001 tragedies. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $961 million, or 7%, to $14,348 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $13,387 million for the comparable 2002 period. The increase is attributable to both the group insurance and the retirement & savings product lines. Within group insurance, life insurance premiums and fees increased by $248 million, or 5%, which is in line with managements expectations. This increase is attributable primarily to higher sales and favorable persistency. The late 2003 acquisition of the John Hancock block of group life business contributed $72 million to this increase. In addition, the long term care, dental, and disability products experienced continued growth at a combined rate of approximately 14%, which is in line with managements expectations. Retirement & savings revenues increased approximately 12% primarily due to higher sales in the structured settlement products partially offset by the impact of a sale of a significant, single premium contract in the second quarter of 2002. Premiums and fees from retirement and saving products are significantly influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from year to year. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in revenues primarily due to a decline in retirement & savings administrative fees from the Companys 401(k) business. This decline resulted from the exit from the large market 401(k) business in late 2001. Consequently, revenue decreased as business was transferred to other carriers throughout 2002. Total expenses increased by $817 million, or 7%, to $12,740 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $11,923 million for the comparable 2002 period. Policyholder related expenses increased $564 million primarily as a function of the growth in business. The increase in expenses is offset by favorable underwriting results in the term life insurance, dental, long term care, and retirement & savings products. The term life mortality incurred loss ratio, which represents actual life claims as a percentage of assumed claims incurred used in the determination of future policy benefits, was 92% for 2003 as compared to 93.6% in 2002. Underwriting results declined in disability as the morbidity incurred loss ratio, which represents actual disability claims as a percentage of assumed claims incurred used in the determination of future policy benefits, increased to 98.5% in 2003 from 97.9% in the prior year. The 2003 ratio was within managements expected range. In addition, the 2002 period includes a $28 million release of a previously established liability for disability insurance related losses from the September 11, 2001 tragedies. Other expenses increased by $253 million over the prior year period. Group insurance and retirement & savings expenses increased $115 million primarily due to an increase in non deferrable expenses associated with the aforementioned revenue growth, $77 million from an increase in pension and postretirement benefit expense, and a $33 million increase in expenses associated with office closures and other consolidations. In addition, the prior year period includes a $30 million reduction of a previously established liability for the Companys 2001 business realignment initiatives. 55 INDIVIDUAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Individual segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $ 4,172 $ 4,344 $ 4,507 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 1,831 1,589 1,379 Net investment income................................... 6,130 6,194 6,237 Other revenues.......................................... 444 407 418 Net investment gains (losses)........................... 74 (307) (290) Total revenues........................................ 12,651 12,227 12,251 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 5,102 5,039 5,064 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 1,674 1,793 1,793 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1,638 1,700 1,770 Other expenses.......................................... 2,939 2,847 2,639 Total expenses........................................ 11,353 11,379 11,266 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 1,298 848 985 Provision for income taxes.............................. 431 281 363 Income from continuing operations....................... 867 567 622 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 3 34 204 Net income.............................................. $ 870 $ 601 $ 826 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INDIVIDUAL Income from continuing operations increased by $300 million, or 53%, to $867 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $567 million for the comparable 2003 period. Included in this increase is an improvement in net investment gains (losses) of $242 million, net of income taxes. This increase includes additional fee income of $154 million, net of income taxes, primarily related to separate account products. In addition, improvement in interest rate spreads contributed $77 million, net of income taxes, to the year over year increase. These spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads include income from certain investment transactions, including corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees, the timing and amount of which are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may fluctuate from year to year. These types of investment transactions contributed $38 million, net of income taxes, to the improvement in interest rate spreads. Additionally, the charge of $31 million, net of income taxes, in 2003 related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial, and a reduction in policyholder dividends of $39 million, net of income taxes, in 2004 contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. These increases in income from continuing operations are partially offset by a reduction in earnings of $78 million, net of income taxes, resulting from an increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation, associated primarily with an improvement in net investment gains (losses). Higher DAC amortization of $74 million, net of income taxes, also increased expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004. Additionally, offsetting these increases are lower net investment income on traditional life and income 56 annuity products of $43 million, net of income taxes. The application of SOP 03 1 and the corresponding cost of hedging guaranteed annuity benefit riders reduced earnings by $30 million, net of income taxes. In addition, less favorable underwriting results in the traditional and universal life products of $20 million, net of income taxes, and higher general spending of $15 million, net of income taxes, added to this offset. These underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality experience and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business, and as a result can fluctuate from year to year. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $43 million, or less than 1%, to $12,577 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $12,534 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase includes higher fee income primarily from separate account products of $252 million resulting from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. In addition, management attributes higher premiums of $37 million in 2004 to the active marketing of income annuity products. The increased volume of sales in 2004 also resulted in higher broker/dealer and other subsidiaries revenues of $27 million. Partially offsetting the increases in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 are lower premiums related to the Companys closed block of business of $209 million, which continues to run off at managements expected range of 3% to 6% per year. In addition, lower net investment income of $64 million resulting from lower investment yields offset other increases in revenues. Total expenses decreased by $26 million, or less than 1%, to $11,353 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $11,379 million for the comparable 2003 period. Lower expenses are primarily the result of a $181 million decrease in the closed block policyholder benefits partially attributable to lower activity associated with the run off of this business and a $119 million decline in interest credited to policyholder account balances due to lower crediting rates. Also included in the decrease in expenses are lower policyholder dividends of $62 million resulting from reductions in the dividend scale in late 2003 and a charge in 2003 related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial of $48 million. Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses is a $123 million increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation based on positive performance of the closed block and higher DAC amortization of $116 million. The increase in DAC amortization is a result of accelerated amortization resulting from improvement in net investment gains (losses) and the update of managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. Additionally, offsetting the decrease to expenses is a $46 million increase from the application of SOP 03 1 and the corresponding cost of hedging guaranteed annuity benefit riders and a $35 million increase in future policy benefits commensurate with the increase in income annuity premiums. Further, the decrease in expenses was offset by less favorable underwriting results in the traditional and universal life products of $32 million, higher general spending of $23 million and a $10 million increase in broker/dealer and other subsidiaries related expenses. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 INDIVIDUAL Income from continuing operations decreased by $55 million, or 9%, to $567 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $622 million for the comparable 2002 period. The decrease year over year is primarily driven by an increase in expenses of $113 million, or 1%, which is largely attributable to an increase in expenses associated with office closures and other consolidations, pension and postretirement benefit costs, an increase in legal related costs and an adjustment related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial. Although revenues are essentially flat year over year, policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products grew 15% year over year. In addition, there is a slight increase in premiums related to other traditional life products. These increases are offset by a 5% decline in premiums from the Companys closed block business, which consists of participating policies issued prior to the Companys demutualization. Premiums on the closed block represent approximately 80% of this segments premiums for the year ended December 31, 2003. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, decreased by $7 million, or less than 1%, to $12,534 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $12,541 million for the comparable 2002 period. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products grew by 15% over the prior year 57 period. This growth is primarily a result of an 18% increase in the average separate account balances, which is largely attributable to improvements in the U.S. financial markets. Additionally, this increase is associated with the aging of the in force policies, as well as an increase in the sales of the enterprise variable annuity product through non traditional distribution channels. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of average assets. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity market performance. This increase in policy fee income was almost entirely offset by declines in premiums and net investment income. Premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business declined by $186 million, or 5%, which is in line with managements expectations, as this business continues to run off. Partially offsetting this decline is a slight increase in the other traditional life products. The decline in net investment income is mainly due to the change in capital allocation methodology and lower investment yields year over year. Total expenses increased by $113 million, or 1%, to $11,379 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $11,266 million for the comparable 2002 period. Other expenses increased by $208 million over the prior year period primarily as a result of expenses associated with certain efficiency initiatives and events. The most significant items include an increase of $67 million from pension and postretirement benefit expense, a $48 million expense recorded in the second quarter of 2003 for an adjustment related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial, $42 million in expenses associated with office closures and other consolidations, $42 million increase in legal related costs, and other expenses associated with strategic initiatives at New England Financial. Offsetting these expense increases are a decline in policyholder benefits consistent with the aforementioned decline in the closed block and a decrease in dividends due to the reduction of the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2002, reflecting the impact of the low U.S. interest rate environment on the asset portfolios supporting these policies. AUTO & HOME The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Auto & Home segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $2,948 $2,908 $2,828 Net investment income...................................... 171 158 177 Other revenues............................................. 35 32 26 Net investment gains (losses).............................. (9) (15) (46) Total revenues........................................... 3,145 3,083 2,985 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 2,079 2,139 2,019 Policyholder dividends..................................... 2 1 Other expenses............................................. 795 756 793 Total expenses........................................... 2,876 2,896 2,812 Income before provision (benefit) for income taxes......... 269 187 173 Provision (benefit) for income taxes....................... 61 30 41 Net income................................................. $ 208 $ 157 $ 132 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AUTO & HOME Net income increased by $51 million, or 32%, to $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $157 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily attributable to an improved non 58 catastrophe combined ratio, which resulted in a benefit of $52 million, net of income taxes, improved claim development related to prior accident years of $61 million, net of income taxes, and an increase in net investment income of $13 million, net of income taxes. Partially offsetting these favorable variances are increased catastrophe losses of $73 million, net of income taxes. This increase resulted from the four hurricanes that struck the Southeastern United States in August and September of 2004. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $56 million, or 2%, to $3,154 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,098 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily attributable to a $40 million increase in premiums, which is largely the result of an increase in the average earned premium resulting from continued rate increases. In addition, a $13 million increase in net investment income is largely attributable to growth in the underlying asset base, an increase in the investment yield and higher income related to tax advantaged municipal bonds. Total expenses decreased by $20 million, or 1%, to $2,876 for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,896 million for the comparable 2003 period. This decrease is the result of an improvement in policyholder benefits and claims due to a favorable change of $94 million in prior year claim development, as well as a decrease in expenses of $80 million resulting from an improved non catastrophe combined ratio primarily attributable to lower automobile and homeowners claim frequencies. These favorable changes in expenses are partially offset by an increase in losses from catastrophes of $112 million and a $39 million increase in expenses primarily due to inflation and employee and other related labor costs. The combined ratio excluding catastrophes declined to 90.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004 from 97.1% for the comparable 2003 period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 AUTO & HOME Net income increased by $25 million, or 19%, to $157 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $132 million for the comparable 2002 period. The increase in earnings year over year is mainly due to premium growth, lower investment losses and a reduction in expenses, partially offset by adverse claims development. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $67 million, or 2%, to $3,098 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $3,031 million for the comparable 2002 period. This variance is mainly due to increases in the average earned premium due to rate increases, partially offset by lower investment income primarily resulting from the change in capital allocation methodology. Total expenses increased by $84 million, or 3%, to $2,896 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,812 million for the comparable 2002 period. Adverse claims development related to prior accident years, resulting mostly from bodily injury and uninsured motorists claims, accounted for $46 million of the increase in policyholder benefits. Also contributing to this increase are higher catastrophe losses of $22 million. Partially offsetting these increases are improved non catastrophe homeowners claims frequencies, a reduction in the number of auto and homeowners policies in force, and underwriting and agency management actions. In addition, there was a $23 million reduction in expenses resulting from the completion of the St. Paul integration and a $35 million reduction in the cost associated with the New York assigned risk plan. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, which represents losses and total expenses including claims as a percentage of premiums, declined to 97.1% for the year ended December 31, 2003 versus 97.4% for the comparable 2002 period. 59 INTERNATIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the International segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $1,735 $1,678 $1,511 Universal life and investment type product policy fees..... 350 272 144 Net investment income...................................... 585 502 461 Other revenues............................................. 23 80 14 Net investment gains (losses).............................. 23 8 (9) Total revenues........................................... 2,716 2,540 2,121 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 1,614 1,457 1,388 Interest credited to policyholder account balances......... 152 143 79 Policyholder dividends..................................... 47 55 35 Other expenses............................................. 624 660 507 Total expenses........................................... 2,437 2,315 2,009 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes............................................. 279 225 112 Provision for income taxes................................. 86 17 28 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of a change in accounting................................ 193 208 84 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes.................................................... (30) Net income................................................. $ 163 $ 208 $ 84 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INTERNATIONAL Income from continuing operations decreased by $15 million, or 7%, to $193 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $208 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year includes a $62 million benefit, net of income taxes, from the merger of the Mexican operations and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in reserve methodology, a $12 million tax benefit in Chile related to the merger of two subsidiaries and an $8 million benefit, net of income taxes, related to reinsurance treaties. These increases are partially offset by a $19 million charge, net of income taxes, in Taiwan related to an increased loss recognition reserve due to low interest rates relative to product guarantees. The prior year also includes a $4 million benefit, net of income taxes, related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. Excluding these items, income from continuing operations increased by $52 million or 37%. A significant component of this increase is attributable to the application of SOP 03 1 in the current year, which resulted in a $21 million decrease, net of income taxes, in policyholder liabilities in Mexico. The primary driver of the current year impact is a decline in the fair value of the underlying assets associated with these contracts. Additionally, a $10 million, net of income taxes, increase in net investment gains is primarily due to the gain from the sale of the Spanish operations. In addition, 2004 includes $8 million of certain tax related benefits in South Korea. The remainder of the increase can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $161 million, or 6%, to $2,693 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,532 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year period includes $230 million of revenues related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. Excluding the sale of these operations, revenues increased by $391 million, or 17%. The Companys Mexican and Chilean 60 operations increased revenues by $144 million and $58 million, respectively, primarily due to growth in the business, as well as improved investment earnings. The Companys operations in South Korea and Taiwan also have increased revenues by $121 million and $34 million, respectively, primarily due to increased new sales and renewal business. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed $14 million to the year over year increase in revenues. The remainder of the increase can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Total expenses increased by $122 million, or 5%, to $2,437 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,315 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year includes expenses of $223 million related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. The prior year also includes a $79 million benefit related to a reduction in the Mexican operations policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in reserve methodology, partially offset by a related increase of $45 million in amortization of VOBA. Additionally, Taiwans 2003 expenses include a $30 million pre tax charge due to an increased loss recognition reserve as a result of low interest rates relative to product guarantees. Excluding these items, expenses increased $341 million, or 16%, over the prior year. Expenses grew by $71 million, $98 million, $58 million and $36 million for the operations in Mexico, South Korea, Chile and Taiwan, respectively, which is commensurate with the revenue growth discussed above. In addition, 2004 includes a $33 million decrease in Mexicos policyholder liabilities resulting from the application of SOP 03 1. Canadas expenses increased by $13 million due primarily to the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the fourth quarter of 2004. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed $18 million to the year over year increase in expenses. The remainder of the increase in total expenses is primarily related to the ongoing investment in infrastructure. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 INTERNATIONAL Net income increased by $124 million, or 148%, to $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $84 million for the comparable 2002 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo accounted for $48 million of this increase. Also contributing to the increase in earnings during 2003 is a $62 million benefit, net of income taxes, from the merger of the Mexican operations and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in reserve methodology, a $12 million tax benefit in Chile and an $8 million benefit, net of income taxes, related to reinsurance treaties. These increases are partially offset by a $19 million charge, net of income taxes, in Taiwan related to an increased loss recognition reserve due to low interest rates relative to product guarantees. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $402 million, or 19%, to $2,532 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,130 million for the comparable 2002 period. This increase is primarily due to the acquisition of Hidalgo, which accounted for $469 million of the variance, partially offset by decreases in Canada of $106 million attributable to a non recurring sale of an annuity contract and $28 million relating to the restructuring of a pension contract from an investment type product to a long term annuity, both of which occurred in 2002. In addition, South Koreas, Chiles and Taiwans revenues increased by $102 million, $60 million and $36 million, respectively, primarily due to business growth. These increases are partially offset by a $161 million decrease in Mexico, excluding Hidalgo. Anticipated actions taken by the Mexican government adversely impacted the insurance and annuities market and resulted in a decline in premiums in Mexicos group and individual life businesses. In addition, the cancellation of a large broker sponsored case at the end of 2002 and the weakening of the peso also contributed to the 2003 decline in Mexico. Total expenses increased by $306 million, or 15%, to $2,315 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,009 million for the comparable 2002 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo contributed $394 million to this increase. Partially offsetting this is a decrease of $106 million for the aforementioned non recurring sale of an annuity contract and a decrease of $28 million for the restructuring of a pension contract, both of which occurred in 2002. In addition, South Koreas, Chiles and Taiwans expenses increased by $95 million, $65 million and $64 million, respectively, commensurate with the revenue increases in each country. Additionally, Taiwans expenses include a $30 million pre tax charge due to an increased loss recognition reserve as a result of low interest rates relative to product guarantees. These increases are partially offset by a 61 $251 million decrease in Mexico, other than Hidalgo, primarily as a result of the impact on expenses from the aforementioned revenue decline in Mexico and a reduction in policyholder liabilities related to a change in reserve methodology. REINSURANCE The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $3,367 $2,668 $2,005 Net investment income...................................... 588 473 421 Other revenues............................................. 57 49 43 Net investment gains (losses).............................. 60 31 (3) Total revenues........................................ 4,072 3,221 2,466 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 2,725 2,136 1,554 Interest credited to policyholder account balances......... 212 184 146 Policyholder dividends..................................... 20 21 22 Other expenses............................................. 964 740 617 Total expenses........................................ 3,921 3,081 2,339 Income before provision for income taxes................... 151 140 127 Provision for income taxes................................. 51 48 43 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of a change in accounting................................ 100 92 84 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes.................................................... 5 Net income................................................. $ 105 $ 92 $ 84 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 REINSURANCE Income from continuing operations increased $8 million, or 9%, to $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $92 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is attributable to a 26% increase in revenues, primarily due to strong premium growth across all of RGAs geographical segments, which includes the effect of the Allianz Life transaction. The growth in income from continuing operations is partially offset by higher minority interest expense as MetLifes ownership in RGA decreased from 59% to 52% in the comparable periods and a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business, which is currently in run off, of $8 million for the third quarter of 2004, net of income taxes and minority interest. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $822 million, or 26%, to $4,012 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,190 million for the comparable 2003 period due primarily to a $699 million increase in premiums. The premium increase during the year ended December 31, 2004 is partially the result of RGAs coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life under which RGA assumed 100% of Allianz Lifes United States traditional life reinsurance business. This transaction closed during 2003, with six months of reinsurance activity recorded in 2003, as compared to twelve months in 2004. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the United States and certain international operations also contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels 62 are significantly influenced by large transactions, such as the Allianz Life transaction, and reporting practices of ceding companies, and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Net investment income also contributed to revenue growth, increasing $115 million, or 24%, to $588 million in 2004 from $473 million in 2003. The growth in net investment income is the result of the growth in RGAs operations and asset base, as well as the conversion of a large reinsurance treaty from a funds withheld to coinsurance basis which resulted in an increase of $12 million in net investment income. Total expenses increased by $840 million, or 27%, to $3,921 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,081 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is commensurate with the growth in revenues and is primarily attributable to an increase of $617 million in policyholder benefits and claims and interest credited to policyholder account balances, primarily associated with RGAs growth in insurance in force of approximately $200 billion, a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business of $24 million, and the inclusion of only six months of results from the Allianz Life transaction in the prior year. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2004, RGA recorded approximately $18 million in policy benefits and claims as a result of the Indian Ocean tsunami on December 26, 2004 and claims development associated with its reinsurance of Argentine pension business. Other expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $106 million in allowances and related expenses on assumed reinsurance associated with RGAs growth in premiums and insurance in force and $15 million in additional amortization of DAC from the conversion of a large reinsurance treaty from a funds withheld to coinsurance basis. The balance of the growth in other expenses is primarily due to the aforementioned increase in minority interest expense from $114 million in 2003 to $161 million in 2004. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 REINSURANCE Net income increased by $8 million, or 10%, to $92 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $84 million for the comparable 2002 period. The increase in earnings year over year is primarily attributable to new business growth, additional renewal premiums, as well as a large coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life under which RGA assumed 100% of Allianz Lifes U.S. traditional life reinsurance business. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $721 million, or 29%, to $3,190 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,469 million for the comparable 2002 period. This increase is primarily due to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, particularly in the United States and United Kingdom reinsurance operations. In addition, there was a $252 million increase in revenues due to the transaction with Allianz Life in late 2003. Total expenses increased by $742 million, or 32%, to $3,081 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,339 million for the comparable 2002 period. This increase is consistent with the growth in revenues and is primarily attributable to policyholder benefits and claims and allowances paid on assumed reinsurance, particularly on certain higher commission business in the United Kingdom. The aforementioned transaction with Allianz Life contributed $242 million to this increase. 63 CORPORATE & OTHER The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Corporate & Other for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums.................................................... $ (9) $ (18) $ (19) Universal life and investment type product policy fees...... 2 Net investment income....................................... 472 184 (22) Other revenues.............................................. 7 39 56 Net investment gains (losses)............................... (152) (6) (56) Total revenues......................................... 320 199 (41) EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims............................ 8 51 3 Other expenses.............................................. 532 304 726 Total expenses......................................... 540 355 729 Income (Loss) from continuing operations before income tax benefit................................................... (220) (156) (770) Income tax benefit.......................................... (239) (193) (329) Income (Loss) from continuing operations.................... 19 37 (441) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes.... 123 273 161 Income (Loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting................................................ 142 310 (280) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes..................................................... (1) Net income (loss)........................................... $ 141 $ 310 $(280) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 CORPORATE & OTHER Income (Loss) from continuing operations decreased by $18 million, or 49%, to $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $37 million for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 period includes a $105 million benefit associated with the resolution of issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also included in the 2004 year is an expense related to a $32 million contribution, net of income taxes, to the MetLife Foundation and a $9 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2003. The year ended December 31, 2003 includes a $92 million benefit, net of income taxes, from the reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement, as well as a $36 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2002. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $28 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 from the comparable 2003 period. The increase in earnings in 2004 over the prior year period is primarily attributable to an increase in net investment income of $183 million and a decrease in policyholder benefits and claims of $27 million, both of which are net of income taxes. This is partially offset by an increase in net investment losses of $93 million and an increase in interest on bank holder deposits of $14 million, a charge related to unoccupied space of $10 million, as well as expenses associated with the piloting of a new product of $7 million, all net of income taxes. In addition, the tax benefit increased by $41 million as a result of a change in the Companys allocation of tax expense among segments. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $267 million, or 130%, to $472 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $205 million for the comparable 2003 period. The increase in revenue is primarily attributable to increases in income on fixed maturity securities, corporate joint 64 venture income, mortgage loans on real estate and equity securities due to increased invested assets and higher yields. Total expenses increased by $185 million, or 52%, to $540 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $355 million for the comparable 2003 period. The year ended December 31, 2004 includes a $50 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation, partially offset by a $22 million reduction of interest expense associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. The year ended December 31, 2003 includes a $144 million benefit from a reduction of a previously established liability associated with the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement. Excluding these items, other expenses increased by $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase is attributable to higher interest expense of $61 million as a result of the issuance of senior notes at the end of 2003 and during 2004, as well as higher interest credited to bank holder deposits of $22 million as a result of growth in MetLife Bank, N.A., ("MetLife Bank"), a national banks, business. This increase is partially offset by a decrease of $54 million from lower interest expense on surplus notes, as well as lower expenses from policyholder benefits and claims of $43 million, a charge related to unoccupied space of $15 million, as well as expenses associated with the piloting of a new product of $11 million. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 CORPORATE & OTHER Income (Loss) from continuing operations increased by $478 million, or 108%, to $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from ($441) million for the comparable 2002 period. The 2003 period includes a $92 million benefit, net of income taxes, from a reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement and a $36 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income tax for 2002. The 2002 period includes a $169 million charge, net of income taxes, to cover costs associated with asbestos related claims, a $48 million charge, net of income taxes, to cover costs associated with the resolution of a federal government investigation of General American Life Insurance Companys ("General American") former Medicare business, and a $30 million reduction, net of income taxes, of a previously established liability related to the Companys sales practice class action settlement in 1999. Excluding the impact of these items, the increase in earnings year over year is mainly due to higher investment income. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $190 million, or 1,267%, to $205 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $15 million for the comparable 2002 period. This variance is mainly due to higher investment income resulting from the change in capital allocation methodology, as well as increases in income from corporate joint ventures, equity linked notes and securities lending. Total expenses decreased by $374 million, or 51%, to $355 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $729 million for the comparable 2002 period. The 2003 period includes a $144 million reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement. The 2002 period includes a $266 million charge to increase the Companys asbestos related liability and expenses to cover costs associated with the resolution of federal government investigations of General Americans former Medicare business. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST I In connection with MetLife, Inc.s, initial public offering in April 2000, the Holding Company and MetLife Capital Trust I (the "Trust") issued equity security units (the "units"). Each unit originally consisted of (i) a contract to purchase, for $50, shares of the Holding Companys common stock (the "purchase contracts") on May 15, 2003; and (ii) a capital security of the Trust, with a stated liquidation amount of $50. In accordance with the terms of the units, the Trust was dissolved on February 5, 2003, and $1,006 million aggregate principal amount of 8.00% debentures of the Holding Company (the "MetLife debentures"), the sole assets of the Trust, were distributed to the owners of the Trusts capital securities in 65 exchange for their capital securities. The MetLife debentures were remarketed on behalf of the debenture owners on February 12, 2003 and the interest rate on the MetLife debentures was reset as of February 15, 2003 to 3.911% per annum for a yield to maturity of 2.876%. As a result of the remarketing, the debenture owners received $21 million ($0.03 per diluted common share) in excess of the carrying value of the capital securities. This excess was recorded by the Company as a charge to additional paid in capital and, for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, is subtracted from net income to arrive at net income available to common shareholders. On May 15, 2003, the purchase contracts associated with the units were settled. In exchange for $1,006 million, the Company issued 2.97 shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock per purchase contract, or 59.8 million shares of treasury stock. The excess of the Companys cost of the treasury stock ($1,662 million) over the contract price of the stock issued to the purchase contract holders ($1,006 million) was $656 million, which was recorded as a direct reduction to retained earnings. Due to the dissolution of the Trust in 2003, there was no interest expense on capital securities for the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest expense on the capital securities is included in other expenses and was $10 million and $81 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On January 31, 2005, the Holding Company entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain indirect subsidiaries of Citigroup Inc., including the majority of The Travelers Insurance Company ("Travelers"), and substantially all of Citigroup Inc.s international insurance businesses for a purchase price of $11.5 billion, subject to adjustment as described in the acquisition agreement. As a condition to closing, Citigroup Inc. and the Holding Company will enter into ten year agreements under which the Company will expand its distribution by making products available through certain Citigroup distribution channels, subject to appropriate suitability and other standards. The transaction is expected to close in the summer of 2005. Approximately $1 billion to $3 billion of the purchase price will be paid in MetLife stock with the remainder paid in cash which will be financed through a combination of cash on hand, debt, mandatorily convertible securities and selected asset sales depending on market conditions, timing, valuation considerations and the relative attractiveness of funding alternatives. The Company has entered into brokerage agreements relating to the possible sale of two of its real estate investments, 200 Park Avenue and One Madison Avenue in New York City. The Company is also contemplating other asset sales, including selling some or all of its beneficially owned shares in RGA. On January 31, 2005, the Holding Company completed the sale of SSRM to a third party for $328 million of cash and stock. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of approximately $150 million, net of income taxes, comprised of a realized gain of $166 million, net of income taxes, and an operating expense related to a lease abandonment of $16 million, net of income taxes. Under the terms of the agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive, prior to the end of 2006, additional payments aggregating up to approximately 25% of the base purchase price, based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife related business. The Company has reclassified the assets, liabilities and operations of SSRM into discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the sale of SSRM resulted in the elimination of the Companys Asset Management segment. The remaining asset management business, which is insignificant, has been reclassified into Corporate & Other. The Companys discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 also includes expenses of approximately $20 million, net of income taxes, related to the sale of SSRM. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES For purposes of this discussion, the terms "MetLife" or the "Company" refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life"). 66 THE COMPANY CAPITAL RBC. Section 1322 of the New York Insurance Law requires that New York domestic life insurers report their RBC based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. Similar rules apply to each of the Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. Section 1322 gives the New York Superintendent of Insurance (the "Superintendent") explicit regulatory authority to require various actions by, or to take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. At December 31, 2004, Metropolitan Lifes and each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries total adjusted capital was in excess of each of the RBC levels required by each state of domicile. The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ("Codification") in 2001. Codification was intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. The New York State Department of Insurance (the "Department") has adopted Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in New York. Modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of Metropolitan Life and the Holding Companys other insurance subsidiaries. ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Business Finance Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific Asset/Liability Management Committees ("A/LM Committees"). The A/LM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the A/LM Committees. The Company establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. In executing these asset/liability matching strategies, management regularly re evaluates the estimates used in determining the approximate amounts and timing of payments to or on behalf of policyholders for insurance liabilities. Many of these estimates are inherently subjective and could impact the Companys ability to achieve its asset/liability management goals and objectives. LIQUIDITY Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Companys liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, excluding securities lending) was $5.5 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling 12 month forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its cash needs under various scenarios that include the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs"), and certain deposit 67 funds liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements beyond normal liquidity, the Company has multiple liquidity alternatives available based on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flow from operations (insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds), borrowings under committed credit facilities, secured borrowings, the ability to issue commercial paper, long term debt, capital securities, common equity and, if necessary, the sale of liquid long term assets. The Companys ability to sell investment assets could be limited by accounting rules including rules relating to the intent and ability to hold impaired securities until the market value of those securities recovers. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a statutory legal entity are available to fund any obligation of the general account within that legal entity. LIQUIDITY SOURCES Cash Flow from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including GICs and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable fixed maturity and equity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending and dollar roll activities. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had $136 billion and $125 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversification of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had $1.4 billion and $3.6 billion in short term debt outstanding, and $7.4 billion and $5.7 billion in long term debt outstanding, respectively. MetLife Funding, Inc. ("MetLife Funding"), a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, the Company has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $10.9 million and $10.8 million, respectively. MetLife Funding raises funds from various funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, to the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of Metropolitan Life and other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of $1,448 million and $1,042 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. Credit Facilities. The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $2.8 billion ($1.1 billion expiring in 2005, $175 million expiring in 2006 and $1.5 billion expiring in 2009). If 68 these facilities were drawn upon, they would bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and $2.5 billion of the facilities also serve as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2004, the Company had drawn approximately $56 million under the facilities expiring in 2005 at interest rates ranging from 5.44% to 6.38% and approximately $50 million under a facility expiring in 2006 at an interest rate of 2.99%. LIQUIDITY USES Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income taxes, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending and dollar roll activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004: PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD LESS THAN THREE TO MORE THAN CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TOTAL THREE YEARS FIVE YEARS FIVE YEARS (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Other long term liabilities(1)(2).......... $80,167 $ 9,408 $8,901 $61,858 Long term debt(3).......................... 7,368 2,110 104 5,154 Partnership investments(4)................. 1,324 1,324 Operating leases(5)........................ 1,084 347 317 420 Mortgage commitments....................... 1,189 1,189 Shares subject to mandatory redemption(3)............................ 350 350 Capital leases............................. 66 18 35 13 Total................................. $91,548 $14,396 $9,357 $67,795 (1) Other long term liabilities include various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including guaranteed interest contracts, structured settlements, pension closeouts, certain annuity policies and certain indemnities. (2) Other long term liabilities include benefit and claim liabilities for which the Company believes the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. Such amounts generally relate to (i) policies or contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event, such as death and (ii) life insurance and property and casualty incurred and reported claims. Liabilities for future policy benefits of approximately $71.5 billion and policyholder account balances of approximately $77.8 billion at December 31, 2004, have been excluded from this table. Amounts excluded from the table are generally comprised of policies or contracts where (i) the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments in the future until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability or (ii) the occurrence of a payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside of the control of the Company. The determination of these liability amounts and the timing of payment are not reasonably fixed and determinable since the insurable event or payment triggering event has not yet occurred. Such excluded liabilities primarily represent future policy benefits of approximately $60.3 billion relating to traditional life, health and disability insurance products and policyholder account balances of approximately 69 $29.3 billion relating to deferred annuities, approximately $21.8 billion for group and universal life products and approximately $13.8 billion for funding agreements without fixed maturity dates. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation and the timing of payments. See " The Company Asset/Liability Management." Amounts included in other long term liabilities reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to interest. The amount shown in the more than five years column represents the sum of cash flows, also adjusted for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement and other appropriate factors and undiscounted with respect to interest, extending for more than 100 years from the present date. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $80.2 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $36.2 billion included in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2004. The liability amount in the consolidated financial statements reflects the discounting for interest, as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above. (3) Amounts differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheets. The amounts above do not include related premiums and discounts or capital leases which are presented separately. (4) The Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested in these partnerships any time over the next five years, but are presented in the current period, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted. (5) Excluded from operating leases in the above contractual obligations table is $117 million, $26 million, $38 million, and $53 million for total, less than three years, three to five years, and more than five years, respectively, related to discontinued operations pertaining to SSRM. As of December 31, 2004, and relative to its liquidity program, the Company had no material (individually or in the aggregate) purchase obligations or material (individually or in the aggregate) unfunded pension or other postretirement benefit obligations due within one year. On April 11, 2003, an affiliate of the Company elected not to make future payments required by the terms of a non recourse loan obligation. The book value of this loan was approximately $17 million at December 31, 2004. The Companys exposure under the terms of the applicable loan agreement is limited solely to its investment in certain securities held by an affiliate. Subsequent to December 31, 2004, in connection with the sale of the related equity investment, the loan was forgiven and the affiliate was discharged and released from its obligations thereunder. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had outstanding $961 million and $828 million, respectively, in letters of credit from various banks, all of which expire within one year. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements. Support Agreements. Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with New England Life Insurance Company ("NELICO") at the time Metropolitan Life merged with New England Mutual Life Insurance Company. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause NELICO to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2004, the capital and surplus of NELICO was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2004. In connection with the Companys acquisition of GenAmerica Financial Corporation ("GenAmerica"), Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with General American. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause General American to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 180% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet 70 its current obligations on a timely basis. The agreement was subsequently amended to provide that, for the five year period from 2003 through 2007, total adjusted capital must be maintained at a level not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes. At December 31, 2004, the capital and surplus of General American was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2004. Metropolitan Life has also entered into arrangements for the benefit of some of its other subsidiaries and affiliates to assist such subsidiaries and affiliates in meeting various jurisdictions regulatory requirements regarding capital and surplus and security deposits. In addition, Metropolitan Life has entered into a support arrangement with respect to a subsidiary under which Metropolitan Life may become responsible, in the event that the subsidiary becomes the subject of insolvency proceedings, for the payment of certain reinsurance recoverables due from the subsidiary to one or more of its cedents in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable reinsurance agreements. General American has agreed to guarantee the contractual obligations of its subsidiary, Paragon Life Insurance Company, and certain contractual obligations of its former subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company ("MetLife Investors"), First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. In addition, General American has entered into a contingent reinsurance agreement with MetLife Investors. Under this agreement, in the event that MetLife Investors statutory capital and surplus is less than $10 million or total adjusted capital falls below 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, General American would assume as assumption reinsurance, subject to regulatory approvals and required consents, all of MetLife Investors life insurance policies and annuity contract liabilities. At December 31, 2004, the capital and surplus of MetLife Investors was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2004. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Companys liquidity resources. Litigation. Various litigation, claims and assessments against the Company in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys consolidated financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Other. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common stock, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. The nature of 71 the Companys diverse product portfolio and customer base lessens the likelihood that normal operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity. Subsequent Events. See " The Holding Company Liquidity Uses Subsequent Events." Consolidated cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $8,066 million and $7,030 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $1,036 million increase in operating cash flows in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily attributable to continued growth in the group life, long term care, dental and disability businesses, as well as an increase in retirement & savings structured settlements due to a large multi contract sale in 2004. Also, the late 2003 acquisition of John Hancocks group life business and the acquisition of TIAA CREFs long term care business contributed to growth in the 2004 period. In addition, an increase in MetLife Banks customer deposits, particularly in the personal and business savings accounts, contributed to the increase in operating cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $7,030 million and $4,180 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $2,850 million increase in operating cash flow in 2003 over the comparable 2002 period is primarily attributable to sales growth in the group life, dental, disability and long term care businesses, as well as higher sales in retirement & savings structured settlement products. The acquisition of John Hancocks group business also contributed to sales growth in the 2003 period. In addition, growth in MetLife Banks customer deposits, accelerated prepayments of mortgage backed securities that have been previously purchased at a premium, and an increase in funds withheld related to reinsurance activity contributed to the increase in operating cash flows. These items were partially offset by the Companys contribution to its qualified defined benefit plans in December 2003. Net cash used in investing activities was $13,015 million and $17,688 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $4,673 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily due to less cash provided by financing activities, partially offset by an increase in cash generated from operations. This decrease in available cash resulted in reduced investments in fixed maturities for the current year versus the prior year. Additionally, there was a decrease in securities lending cash collateral invested in 2004 as compared to 2003. These items are partially offset by an increase in mortgage and other loan origination as the Company continues to take advantage of favorable market conditions in this sector as well as an increase in cash used for equity securities and short term investments for the comparable periods. Net cash used in investing activities was $17,688 million and $16,213 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $1,475 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2003 over the comparable 2002 period is primarily attributable to an increase in the purchase of fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loan origination, as well as an increase in the amount of securities lending cash collateral invested, which resulted from an expansion of the program. In addition, the Company invested income generated from operations and cash raised through the issuance of GICs. These items were partially offset by lower income resulting from lower market rates and the June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo. In addition, the 2003 period had less proceeds from sales of equity securities and real estate to use in investing activities. The 2002 period included proceeds from a significant sale of equity securities and cash generated by the Companys real estate sales program. Net cash provided by financing activities was $5,322 million and $12,068 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $6,746 million decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily due to repayments of short term debt associated with dollar roll activity, and an increase in cash used in the Companys stock repurchase program. In addition, net cash provided by policyholder account balances decreased for the comparable 2003 period mainly as a result of a decrease in GICs sold in 2004 as compared to 2003. The 2003 period included payments of $1,006 million received on the settlement of common stock purchase contracts (see " The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Global Funding Sources"), and $317 million net cash proceeds associated with RGAs issuance of common stock. The Company also doubled its annual dividend per share in 72 2004. These items were partially offset by additional proceeds from the issuance of senior notes by the Holding Company and a decrease in repayments of long term debt for the comparable periods. Net cash provided by financing activities was $12,068 million and $6,883 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $5,185 million increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2003 over the comparable 2002 period is due to an increase in policyholder account balances primarily from sales of annuity products, as well as additional short term debt issued related to dollar roll activity. In 2003, the Company received $1,006 million on the settlement of common stock purchase contracts (see " The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Global Funding Sources"), issued $700 million of senior notes and had a decrease in cash used in the stock repurchase program as compared to 2002. The 2003 period also includes $317 million net cash proceeds associated with RGAs issuance of common stock. These cash flows were partially offset by additional repayments of long term debt and a 10% increase in cash dividends per share in 2003 as compared to 2002. THE HOLDING COMPANY CAPITAL Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies Capital. MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At December 31, 2004, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in compliance with the aforementioned guidelines. The following table contains the RBC ratios as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the regulatory requirements for MetLife Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: METLIFE, INC. RBC RATIOS BANK HOLDING COMPANY AS OF DECEMBER 31, REGULATORY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS REQUIREMENTS 2004 2003 MINIMUM "WELL CAPITALIZED" Total RBC Ratio....................... 10.20% 11.19% 8.00% 10.00% Tier 1 RBC Ratio...................... 9.73% 9.19% 4.00% 6.00% Tier 1 Leverage Ratio................. 6.06% 6.12% 3.00% 5.00% METLIFE BANK RBC RATIOS BANK AS OF DECEMBER 31, REGULATORY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS REQUIREMENTS 2004 2003 MINIMUM "WELL CAPITALIZED" Total RBC Ratio....................... 17.09% 13.12% 8.00% 10.00% Tier 1 RBC Ratio...................... 16.38% 12.50% 4.00% 6.00% Tier 1 Leverage Ratio................. 10.84% 8.81% 3.00% 5.00% LIQUIDITY Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and is provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global 73 financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to liquidity. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. LIQUIDITY SOURCES Dividends. The primary source of the Holding Companys liquidity is dividends it receives from Metropolitan Life. Under New York State Insurance Law, Metropolitan Life is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a dividend to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year; and (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). Metropolitan Life will be permitted to pay a dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution. Under New York State Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. The New York State Department of Insurance has established informal guidelines for such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus on the insurers overall financial condition and profitability under statutory accounting practices. Management of the Holding Company cannot provide assurance that Metropolitan Life will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends or that the Superintendent will not disapprove any dividends that Metropolitan Life must submit for the Superintendents consideration. In addition, the Holding Company receives dividends from its other subsidiaries. The Holding Companys other insurance subsidiaries are also subject to similar restrictions on the payment of dividends to their respective parent companies. The dividend limitation is based on statutory financial results. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. As of December 31, 2004, the maximum amount of the dividend which may be paid to the Holding Company by Metropolitan Life, Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company in 2005, without prior regulatory approval, is $880 million, $187 million and $119 million, respectively. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets that it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable fixed maturity and equity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending and dollar roll activities. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Holding Company had $2,090 million and $1,302 million in liquid assets, respectively. 74 Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversification of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds, and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2004, the Holding Company had no short term debt outstanding as compared to $106 million at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Holding Company had $5.7 billion and $4.0 billion in long term debt outstanding, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, the Holding Company has issued an aggregate principal amount of senior debt of $1.2 billion under the $5.0 billion shelf registration statement filed with the SEC during the first quarter of 2004. The shelf registration will permit the registration and issuance of a wide range of debt and equity securities. Approximately $44 million of registered but unissued securities remaining from the Companys 2001 $4.0 billion shelf registration statement was carried over to this shelf registration. The Holding Company issued senior debt in the aggregate principal amount of $2.95 billion under the 2001 $4.0 billion shelf registration statement from November 2001 through November 2003. In addition, under this shelf registration statement, in February 2003, the Holding Company remarketed debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1.01 billion in accordance with the terms of the then outstanding equity security units. On December 9, 2004, the Holding Company issued 350 million pounds sterling aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due December 9, 2024. The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Up to 35 million pounds sterling, or $66.8 million (translated from pounds sterling to U.S. dollars using the noon buying rate for pound sterling on November 30, 2004 as announced by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of New York) of the senior notes initially offered and sold outside the United States may be resold in the United States pursuant to the Companys shelf registration statement. The following table summarizes the Holding Companys senior debt issuances: INTEREST ISSUE DATE PRINCIPAL RATE MATURITY (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) December 2004(1).................................. $671 5.38% 2024 June 2004(2)...................................... $350 5.50% 2014 June 2004(2)...................................... $750 6.38% 2034 November 2003..................................... $500 5.00% 2013 November 2003..................................... $200 5.88% 2033 December 2002..................................... $400 5.38% 2012 December 2002..................................... $600 6.50% 2032 November 2001..................................... $500 5.25% 2006 November 2001..................................... $750 6.13% 2011 (1) This amount represents the translation of 350 million pounds sterling into U.S. Dollars using the noon buying rate on December 31, 2004 of 1.916 as announced by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (2) On July 23, 2004, the Holding Company reopened its June 3, 2004 senior notes offering and increased the principal outstanding on the 5.50% notes due June 2014, from $200 million to $350 million and on the 6.38% notes due June 2034, from $400 million to $750 million. (3) This table excludes the remarketed debentures of $1.01 billion and any premium or discount on the senior debt issuances. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed, arranged through Metropolitan Life. 75 Credit Facilities. The Holding Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $2.5 billion ($1 billion expiring in 2005 and $1.5 billion expiring in 2009) which it shares with Metropolitan Life and MetLife Funding. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at varying rates stated in the agreements. These facilities are primarily used for general corporate purposes and as back up lines of credit for the borrowers commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2004, none of the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life or MetLife Funding had borrowed against these credit facilities. LIQUIDITY USES The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include service on debt, cash dividends on common stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and the repurchase of the Holding Companys common stock. Dividends. On September 28, 2004, the Holding Companys Board of Directors approved an annual dividend for 2004 of $0.46 per share payable on December 13, 2004 to shareholders of record on November 5, 2004. The 2004 dividend represents a 100% increase from the 2003 annual dividend of $0.23 per share. Future dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding Companys Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Holding Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Capital Contributions to Subsidiaries. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Holding Company contributed an aggregate of $761 million and $239 million to various subsidiaries, respectively. Share Repurchase. On October 26, 2004, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. This program began after the completion of the February 19, 2002 and March 28, 2001 repurchase programs, each of which authorized the repurchase of $1 billion of common stock. Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. On December 16, 2004, the Holding Company repurchased 7,281,553 shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $300 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and is purchasing the shares in the open market over the next few months to return to the lenders. The Holding Company will either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the shares. The final purchase price is expected to be determined in April 2005 and will be settled in either cash or Holding Company stock at the Holding Companys option. The Holding Company recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and will record any amount paid or received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. The following table summarizes the 2004, 2003 and 2002 repurchase activity, which includes the accelerated share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter of 2004: DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Shares Repurchased............................. 26,373,952 2,997,200 15,244,492 Cost........................................... $ 1,000 $ 97 $ 471 At December 31, 2004, the Holding Company had approximately $710 million remaining on its existing share repurchase program. As a result of the Holding Companys agreement to acquire Travelers from Citigroup, the Holding Company has suspended its share repurchase activity. In the fourth quarter of 2003, RGA offered to the public 12,075,000 shares of its common stock at $36.65 per share. MetLife and its affiliates purchased 3,000,000 shares of the common stock offered by RGA. As a result of this offering, MetLifes ownership percentage of outstanding shares of RGA common stock was reduced from approximately 59% at December 31, 2002 to approximately 52% at December 31, 2003. 76 MetLifes ownership percentage of the outstanding shares of RGA common stock remains approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Holding Company had outstanding $369 million and $206 million, respectively, in the letters of credit from various banks, all of which expire within one year. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements. Support Agreements. In 2002, the Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with three of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company, First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. Under the agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2004, the capital and surplus of each of these subsidiaries is in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amounts referenced above, and their total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2004. Based on managements analysis and comparison of its current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. Subsequent Events. On January 31, 2005, the Holding Company entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain indirect subsidiaries of Citigroup Inc., including the majority of Travelers, and substantially all of Citigroup Inc.s international insurance businesses for a purchase price of $11.5 billion, subject to adjustment as described in the acquisition agreement. As a condition to closing, Citigroup Inc. and the Holding Company will enter into ten year agreements under which the Company will expand its distribution by making products available through certain Citigroup distribution channels, subject to appropriate suitability and other standards. The transaction is expected to close in the summer of 2005. Approximately $1 billion to $3 billion of the purchase price will be paid in MetLife stock with the remainder paid in cash which will be financed through a combination of cash on hand, debt, mandatorily convertible securities and selected asset sales depending on market conditions, timing, valuation considerations and the relative attractiveness of funding alternatives. The Company has entered into brokerage agreements relating to the possible sale of two of its real estate investments, 200 Park Avenue and One Madison Avenue in New York City. The Company is also contemplating other asset sales, including selling some or all of its beneficially owned shares in RGA. INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assessments levied against the Company from January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2004 aggregated $20 million. The Company maintained a liability of $73 million at December 31, 2004 for future assessments in respect of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. 77 In the past five years, none of the aggregate assessments levied against MetLifes insurance subsidiaries has been material. The Company has established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Staff Position Paper ("FSP") 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA"). The AJCA introduced a one time dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer. FSP 109 2 provides companies additional time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The Company is currently evaluating the repatriation provision of the AJCA. If the repatriation provision is implemented by the Company, the impact on the Companys income tax expense and deferred income tax assets and liabilities would be immaterial. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153 Exchange of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 29 ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amends prior guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005 and shall be applied prospectively. SFAS 153 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements at the date of adoption. In December 2004, FASB revised SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation ("SFAS 123") to Share Based Payment ("SFAS 123(r)"). SFAS 123(r) provides additional guidance on determining whether certain financial instruments awarded in share based payment transactions are liabilities. SFAS 123(r) also requires that the cost of all share based transactions be recorded in the financial statements. The revised pronouncement must be adopted by the Company by July 1, 2005. As all stock options currently accounted for under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB 25") will vest prior to the effective date, implementation of SFAS 123(r) will not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure ("SFAS 148"), which provides guidance on how to apply the fair value method of accounting for share based payments. As permitted under SFAS 148, the Company elected to use the prospective method of accounting for stock options granted subsequent to December 31, 2002. Options granted prior to January 1, 2003 will continue to be accounted for under the intrinsic value method until the adoption of SFAS 123(r), and the pro forma impact of accounting for these options at fair value will continue to be disclosed in the consolidated financial statements until the last of those options vest in 2005. In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached further consensus on Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments ("EITF 03 1"). EITF 03 1 provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method should be considered other than temporary and recognized in income. An EITF 03 1 consensus reached in November 2003 also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity securities classified as available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, that are impaired at the balance sheet date but for which an other than 78 temporary impairment has not been recognized. The Company has complied with the disclosure requirements of EITF 03 1 which were effective December 31, 2003. The accounting guidance of EITF 03 1 relating to the recognition of investment impairment which was to be effective in the third quarter of 2004 has been delayed pending the development of additional guidance. The Company is actively monitoring the deliberations relating to this issue at the FASB and currently is unable to determine the ultimate impact EITF 03 1 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2004, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 03 6, Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128 ("EITF 03 6"). EITF 03 6 provides guidance in determining whether a security should be considered a participating security for purposes of computing earnings per share and how earnings should be allocated to the participating security. EITF 03 6 did not have an impact on the Companys earnings per share calculations or amounts. In March 2004, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies ("EITF 03 16"). EITF 03 16 provides guidance regarding whether a limited liability company should be viewed as similar to a corporation or similar to a partnership for purposes of determining whether a noncontrolling investment should be accounted for using the cost method or the equity method of accounting. EITF 03 16 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted SOP 03 1, as interpreted by Technical Practices Aids issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. SOP 03 1 provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. In June 2004, the FASB released FSP No. 97 1, Situations in Which Paragraphs 17(b) and 20 of FASB Statement No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, Permit or Require Accrual of an Unearned Revenue Liability ("FSP 97 1") which included clarification that unearned revenue liabilities should be considered in determining the necessary insurance benefit liability required under SOP 03 1. Since the Company had considered unearned revenue in determining its SOP 03 1 benefit liabilities, FSP 97 1 did not impact its consolidated financial statements. As a result of the adoption of SOP 03 1, effective January 1, 2004, the Company decreased the liability for future policyholder benefits for changes in the methodology relating to various guaranteed death and annuitization benefits and for determining liabilities for certain universal life insurance contracts by $4 million, which has been reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. This amount is net of corresponding changes in DAC, including VOBA and unearned revenue liability ("offsets") under certain variable annuity and life contracts and income taxes. Certain other contracts sold by the Company provide for a return through periodic crediting rates, surrender adjustments or termination adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets owned by the Company. To the extent that such contracts are not accounted for as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 133") and not already credited to the contract account balance, under SOP 03 1 the change relating to the fair value of the referenced pool of assets is recorded as a liability with the change in the liability recorded as policyholder benefits and claims. Prior to the adoption of SOP 03 1, the Company recorded the change in such liability as other comprehensive income. At adoption, this change decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by $63 million, net of income taxes, which were recorded as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, costs associated with enhanced or bonus crediting rates to contractholders must be deferred and amortized over the life of the related contract using assumptions consistent with the amortization of DAC. Since the Company followed a similar approach prior to adoption of SOP 03 1, the provisions of SOP 03 1 relating to sales inducements had no significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. At adoption, the Company reclassified $155 million of ownership in its own separate accounts from other assets to fixed maturities, equity securities and cash and cash equivalents. This reclassification had no significant impact on net income or other comprehensive income at adoption. In accordance with SOP 03 1s guidance for the reporting of certain separate accounts, at adoption, the Company also reclassified $1.7 billion of separate account assets to general account investments and $1.7 billion of separate account liabilities to future policy benefits and policyholder account balances. This reclassification decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by 79 $27 million, net of income taxes, which were reported as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. The application of SOP 03 1 decreased the Companys 2004 net income by $67 million, including the cumulative effect of adoption of a decrease in net income of $86 million as described above. In December 2003, FASB revised SFAS No. 132, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106 ("SFAS 132(r)"). SFAS 132(r) retains most of the disclosure requirements of SFAS 132 and requires additional disclosure about assets, obligations, cash flows and net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. SFAS 132(r) was primarily effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003; however, certain disclosures about foreign plans and estimated future benefit payments were effective for fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004. The Companys adoption of SFAS 132(r) on December 31, 2003 did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements since it only revised disclosure requirements. In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("FSP 106 2"), which provides accounting guidance to a sponsor of a postretirement health care plan that provides prescription drug benefits. The Company expects to receive subsidies on prescription drug benefits beginning in 2006 under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 based on the Companys determination that the prescription drug benefits offered under certain postretirement plans are actuarially equivalent to the benefits offered under Medicare Part D. FSP 106 2 was effective for interim periods beginning after June 15, 2004 and provides for either retroactive application to the date of enactment of the legislation or prospective application from the date of adoption of FSP 106 2. Effective July 1, 2004, the Company adopted FSP 106 2 prospectively and the postretirement benefit plan assets and accumulated benefit obligation were remeasured to determine the effect of the expected subsidies on net periodic postretirement benefit cost. As a result, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic postretirement benefit cost was reduced by $213 million and $17 million, for 2004, respectively. Effective October 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B36, Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposures That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor under Those Instruments ("Issue B36"). Issue B36 concluded that (i) a companys funds withheld payable and or receivable under certain reinsurance arrangements, and (ii) a debt instrument that incorporates credit risk exposures that are unrelated or only partially related to the creditworthiness of the obligor include an embedded derivative feature that is not clearly and closely related to the host contract. Therefore, the embedded derivative feature is measured at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in fair value are reported in income. The Companys application of Issue B36 increased (decreased) net income by $4 million and ($12) million, net of amortization of DAC and income taxes, for 2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2003 impact includes a decrease in net income of $26 million relating to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting from the adoption of the new guidance. Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 149"). SFAS 149 amended and clarified the accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. Except for certain previously issued and effective guidance, SFAS 149 was effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The Companys adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. During 2003, the Company adopted FASB ("FIN") Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 ("FIN 46"), and its December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)"). Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE") and have been consolidated, in accordance with the transition rules and effective dates, because the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. A VIE is defined as (i) any entity in which the equity investments at risk in such entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or (ii) any entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated support from other parties. Effective February 1, 80 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46 for VIEs created or acquired on or after February 1, 2003 and, effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46(r) with respect to interests in entities formerly considered special purpose entities ("SPEs"), including interests in asset backed securities and collateralized debt obligations. The adoption of FIN 46 as of February 1, 2003 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) at December 31, 2003 did not require the Company to consolidate any additional VIEs that were not previously consolidated. In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46(r), the Company elected to defer until March 31, 2004 the consolidation of interests in VIEs for non SPEs acquired prior to February 1, 2003 for which it is the primary beneficiary. As of March 31, 2004, the Company consolidated assets and liabilities relating to real estate joint ventures of $78 million and $11 million, respectively, and assets and liabilities relating to other limited partnerships of $29 million and less than $1 million, respectively, for VIEs for which the Company was deemed to be the primary beneficiary. There was no impact to net income from the adoption of FIN 46. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted FIN No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 requires entities to establish liabilities for certain types of guarantees and expands financial statement disclosures for others. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of FIN 45 were applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption of FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recorded and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as required by EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring ("EITF 94 3"). The Companys activities subject to this guidance in 2004 and 2003 were not significant. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections ("SFAS 145"). In addition to amending or rescinding other existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings, or describe their applicability under changed conditions, SFAS 145 generally precludes companies from recording gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt as an extraordinary item. SFAS 145 also requires sale leaseback treatment for certain modifications of a capital lease that result in the lease being classified as an operating lease. The adoption of SFAS 145 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144. SFAS 144 provides a single model for accounting for long lived assets to be disposed of by superseding SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of ("SFAS 121"), and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions ("APB 30"). Under SFAS 144, discontinued operations are measured at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell, rather than on a net realizable value basis. Future operating losses relating to discontinued operations also are no longer recognized before they occur. SFAS 144: (i) broadens the definition of a discontinued operation to include a component of an entity (rather than a segment of a business); (ii) requires long lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale to be considered held and used until disposed; and (iii) retains the basic provisions of (a) APB 30 regarding the presentation of discontinued operations in the statements of income, (b) SFAS 121 relating to recognition and measurement of impaired long lived assets (other than goodwill), and (c) SFAS 121 relating to the measurement of long lived assets classified as held for sale. Adoption of SFAS 144 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements other than the presentation as discontinued operations of net investment income and net investment gains related to operations of real estate on which the Company initiated disposition activities subsequent to January 1, 2002 and the classification of such real estate as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets. 81 Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, ("SFAS 142"). SFAS 142 eliminates the systematic amortization and establishes criteria for measuring the impairment of goodwill and certain other intangible assets by reporting unit. There was no impairment of identified intangibles or significant reclassifications between goodwill and other intangible assets at January 1, 2002. Amortization of other intangible assets was not material for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. INVESTMENTS The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: Credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; Interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and Market valuation risk. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies, product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. 82 COMPOSITION OF PORTFOLIO AND INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table illustrates the net investment income and annualized yields on average assets for each of the components of the Companys investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The decline in annualized yields is due primarily to the decline in interest rates during these periods. DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) FIXED MATURITIES Yield(2)............................................. 6.55% 6.89% 7.46% Investment income.................................... $ 9,042 $ 8,502 $ 8,076 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 71 $ (398) $ (917) Ending assets........................................ $176,763 $167,752 $140,288 MORTGAGE AND OTHER LOANS Yield(2)............................................. 6.86% 7.48% 7.84% Investment income(3)................................. $ 1,961 $ 1,903 $ 1,883 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ (47) $ (56) $ (22) Ending assets........................................ $ 32,406 $ 26,249 $ 25,086 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES(4) Yield(2)............................................. 11.64% 10.90% 11.48% Investment income(5)................................. $ 516 $ 513 $ 637 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 162 $ 440 $ 576 Ending assets(6)..................................... $ 4,329 $ 4,680 $ 4,637 POLICY LOANS Yield(2)............................................. 6.15% 6.40% 6.49% Investment income.................................... $ 541 $ 554 $ 543 Ending assets........................................ $ 8,899 $ 8,749 $ 8,580 EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS Yield(2)............................................. 9.90% 3.02% 2.66% Investment income(5)................................. $ 404 $ 111 $ 99 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 208 $ (43) $ 222 Ending assets(6)..................................... $ 5,144 $ 4,198 $ 4,096 CASH AND SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Yield(2)............................................. 2.99% 2.73% 4.17% Investment income(5)................................. $ 153 $ 165 $ 232 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ (1) $ 1 $ Ending assets(6)..................................... $ 6,802 $ 5,559 $ 4,244 OTHER INVESTED ASSETS(7) Yield(2)............................................. 6.38% 8.53% 8.82% Investment income(5)................................. $ 259 $ 290 $ 218 Net investment gains (losses)(8)(9).................. $ (149) $ (180) $ (206) Ending assets(6)..................................... $ 4,946 $ 4,645 $ 3,727 83 DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) TOTAL INVESTMENTS Gross investment income yield(2)..................... 6.67% 6.86% 7.40% Investment fees and expenses yield................... (0.14)% (0.15)% (0.15)% NET INVESTMENT INCOME YIELD.......................... 6.53% 6.71% 7.25% Gross investment income.............................. $ 12,876 $ 12,038 $ 11,688 Investment fees and expenses......................... (262) (266) (235) NET INVESTMENT INCOME(1)(4)(5)(7)(9)................. $ 12,614 $ 11,772 $ 11,453 Ending assets(1)..................................... $239,289 $221,832 $190,658 Net investment gains (losses)(1)(4)(7)(8)(9)......... $ 244 $ (236) $ (347) (1) Included in ending assets, investment income and investment gains (losses) is $2,139 million, $86 million and $25 million, respectively, related to the consolidation of separate accounts under SOP 03 1 for the year ended December 31, 2004. (2) Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses), and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude collateral associated with the Companys securities lending program. (3) Investment income from mortgage and other loans includes prepayment fees. (4) Real estate and real estate joint venture income includes amounts classified as discontinued operations of $54 million, $93 million and $180 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Net investment gains (losses) include $139 million, $420 million and $582 million of gains classified as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (5) Included in investment income from real estate and real estate joint ventures, equity securities and other limited partnership interests, cash and short term investments, other invested assets, and investment expenses and fees is a total of $65 million, $56 million and $59 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to discontinued operations pertaining to SSRM. (6) Included in ending assets for real estate and real estate joint ventures, equity securities and other limited partnership interests, cash and short term investments and other invested assets is a total of $96 million, $49 million, $88 million and $20 million, respectively, pertaining to SSRM at December 31, 2004. Included in ending assets for real estate and real estate joint ventures, equity securities and other limited partnership interests, cash and short term investments, and other invested assets is a total of $3 million, $14 million, $67 million and $8 million, respectively, pertaining to SSRM at December 31, 2003. Included in ending assets for real estate and real estate joint ventures, equity securities and other limited partnership interests, cash and short term investments, and other invested assets is a total of $19 million, $7 million, $54 million and $5 million, respectively, pertaining to SSRM at December 31, 2002. (7) Investment income from other invested assets includes scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 of $51 million, $84 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These amounts are excluded from net investment gains (losses). (8) Included in net investment gains (losses) from other invested assets is $0 million, $10 million and $(4) million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to discontinued operations pertaining to SSRM. (9) Included in net investment gains (losses) from other invested assets for the year ended December 31, 2004, is a charge of $26 million related to a funds withheld reinsurance treaty that was converted to a coinsurance agreement. This amount is classified in net investment income in the consolidated statements of income. 84 FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES Fixed maturities consist principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 73.9% and 75.7% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, public fixed maturities represented $154,456 million, or 87.4%, and $147,489 million, or 87.9%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed maturities represented $22,307 million, or 12.6%, and $20,263 million, or 12.1%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories called "NAIC designations." The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys Investors Services ("Moodys"), or rated "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors ("S&P") by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or rated "BB+" or lower by S&P). The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturities by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations designation and the equivalent ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 COST OR COST OR NAIC RATING AGENCY AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF RATING DESIGNATION(1) COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) 1 Aaa/Aa/A.......................... $113,071 $118,779 67.2% $106,779 $112,333 67.0% 2 Baa............................... 42,165 45,311 25.6 39,006 42,057 25.0 3 Ba................................ 6,907 7,500 4.2 7,388 8,011 4.8 4 B................................. 4,097 4,414 2.5 3,578 3,814 2.3 5 Caa and lower..................... 329 366 0.2 630 629 0.4 6 In or near default................ 101 90 0.1 341 371 0.2 Subtotal.......................... 166,670 176,460 99.8 157,722 167,215 99.7 Redeemable preferred stock........ 326 303 0.2 611 537 0.3 Total fixed maturities............ $166,996 $176,763 100.0% $158,333 $167,752 100.0% (1) Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are based on availability and the lower of the applicable ratings between Moodys and S&P. The current period ratings are presented so that the consolidated rating is equal to the Moodys or S&P rating, whichever is more conservative. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating will be used. 85 The following table shows the amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturities, by contractual maturity dates (excluding scheduled sinking funds) at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 COST OR COST OR AMORTIZED ESTIMATED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE COST FAIR VALUE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less.................... $ 6,751 $ 6,845 $ 5,381 $ 5,542 Due after one year through five years...... 29,850 31,168 30,893 32,431 Due after five years through ten years..... 33,543 36,008 29,342 31,830 Due after ten years........................ 41,960 46,832 39,011 43,064 Subtotal.............................. 112,104 120,853 104,627 112,867 Mortgage backed, commercial mortgage backed and other asset backed securities........ 54,566 55,607 53,095 54,348 Subtotal.............................. 166,670 176,460 157,722 167,215 Redeemable preferred stock................. 326 303 611 537 Total fixed maturities................ $166,996 $176,763 $158,333 $167,752 Bonds not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options. The following tables set forth the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturities by sector and equity securities, as well as the percentage of the total fixed maturities holdings that each sector represents and the percentage of the total equity securities at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 COST OR GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) U.S. treasury/agency securities......... $ 16,534 $ 1,314 $ 22 $ 17,826 10.1% State and political subdivision securities............................ 3,683 220 4 3,899 2.2 U.S. corporate securities............... 58,022 3,870 172 61,720 34.9 Foreign government securities........... 7,637 974 26 8,585 4.9 Foreign corporate securities............ 25,341 2,582 85 27,838 15.7 Residential mortgage backed securities............................ 31,683 612 65 32,230 18.2 Commercial mortgage backed securities... 12,099 440 38 12,501 7.1 Asset backed securities................. 10,784 125 33 10,876 6.1 Other fixed maturity securities......... 887 131 33 985 0.6 Total bonds........................ 166,670 10,268 478 176,460 99.8 Redeemable preferred stocks............. 326 23 303 0.2 Total fixed maturities............. $166,996 $10,268 $501 $176,763 100.0% Common stocks........................... $ 1,412 $ 244 $ 5 $ 1,651 75.5% Nonredeemable preferred stocks.......... 501 39 3 537 24.5 Total equity securities(1)......... $ 1,913 $ 283 $ 8 $ 2,188 100.0% 86 DECEMBER 31, 2003 COST OR GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) U.S. treasury/agency securities......... $ 14,707 $ 1,264 $ 26 $ 15,945 9.5% State and political subdivision securities............................ 3,155 209 15 3,349 2.0 U.S. corporate securities............... 56,757 3,886 252 60,391 36.0 Foreign government securities........... 7,789 1,003 28 8,764 5.2 Foreign corporate securities............ 21,727 2,194 79 23,842 14.2 Residential mortgage backed securities............................ 30,836 720 102 31,454 18.8 Commercial mortgage backed securities... 10,523 530 22 11,031 6.6 Asset backed securities................. 11,736 187 60 11,863 7.1 Other fixed maturity securities......... 492 167 83 576 0.3 Total bonds........................ 157,722 10,160 667 167,215 99.7 Redeemable preferred stocks............. 611 2 76 537 0.3 Total fixed maturities............. $158,333 $10,162 $743 $167,752 100.0% Common stocks........................... $ 613 $ 327 $ 2 $ 938 59.2% Nonredeemable preferred stocks.......... 602 48 4 646 40.8 Total equity securities(1)......... $ 1,215 $ 375 $ 6 $ 1,584 100.0% (1) Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities include private equity securities with an estimated fair value of $332 million and $432 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Fixed Maturity and Equity Security Impairment. The Company classifies all of its fixed maturities and equity securities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income, except for non marketable private equities, which are generally carried at cost. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described in "Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Investments," about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. The Companys review of its fixed maturities and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment, and often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturities and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Impairments of fixed maturities and equity securities were $102 million, $355 million and $1,375 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Companys three 87 largest impairments totaled $53 million, $125 million and $352 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The circumstances that gave rise to these impairments were either financial restructurings or bankruptcy filings. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company sold or disposed of fixed maturities and equity securities at a loss that had a fair value of $29,939 million, $21,984 million and $10,128 million, respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed maturities and equity securities were $516 million, $500 million and $979 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The following table presents the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized losses and number of securities for fixed maturities and equity securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for: DECEMBER 31, 2004 COST OR GROSS UNREALIZED NUMBER OF AMORTIZED COST LOSSES SECURITIES LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR 20% MORE 20% MORE 20% MORE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Less than six months............ $27,178 $ 79 $246 $18 3,188 117 Six months or greater but less than nine months.............. 8,477 9 111 2 687 5 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months............ 1,595 19 33 4 206 5 Twelve months or greater........ 2,798 19 80 15 395 7 Total...................... $40,048 $126 $470 $39 4,476 134 The gross unrealized loss related to the Companys fixed maturities and equity securities at December 31, 2004 was $509 million. These securities are concentrated by sector in United States corporates (34%); foreign corporates (17%); and residential mortgage backed (13%); and are concentrated by industry in mortgage backed (20%); finance (10%); and services (10%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 4% of the $39,665 million fair value and 12% of the $509 million gross unrealized loss. The Company did not hold any single fixed maturity or equity security with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2004 greater than $10 million. Corporate Fixed Maturities. The table below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed maturity holdings at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Industrial....................................... $35,785 39.9% $34,474 40.9% Utility.......................................... 10,800 12.1 9,955 11.8 Finance.......................................... 14,481 16.2 14,287 17.0 Foreign(1)....................................... 27,838 31.1 23,842 28.3 Other............................................ 654 0.7 1,675 2.0 Total....................................... $89,558 100.0% $84,233 100.0% (1) Includes U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors, and other foreign investments. The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Companys combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the 88 greatest exposure totaled $4,967 million and $4,683 million, respectively, both of which was less than 3% of the Companys total invested assets at such date. The exposure to the largest single issuer of corporate fixed maturities held at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $631 million and $618 million, respectively. The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign currency risk in its invested assets. In the Companys international insurance operations, both its assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. Structured Securities. The following table shows the types of structured securities the Company held at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Residential mortgage backed securities: Pass through securities........................ $12,478 22.4% $15,427 28.4% Collateralized mortgage obligations............ 19,752 35.5 16,027 29.5 Total residential mortgage backed securities................................ 32,230 57.9 31,454 57.9 Commercial mortgage backed securities............ 12,501 22.5 11,031 20.3 Asset backed securities.......................... 10,876 19.6 11,863 21.8 Total....................................... $55,607 100.0% $54,348 100.0% The majority of the residential mortgage backed securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $31,768 million and $31,210 million, respectively, or 98.6% and 99.2%, respectively, of the residential mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/ AAA by Moodys or S&P. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $8,750 million and $6,992 million, respectively, or 70.0% and 63.4%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P. The Companys asset backed securities are diversified both by sector and by issuer. Credit card and home equity loan securitizations, accounting for about 26% and 32% of the total holdings, respectively, constitute the largest exposures in the Companys asset backed securities portfolio. Approximately $6,775 million and $7,528 million, or 62.3% and 63.5%, of total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Structured Investment Transactions. The Company participates in structured investment transactions, primarily asset securitizations and structured notes. These transactions enhance the Companys total return of the investment portfolio principally by generating management fee income on asset securitizations and by providing equity based returns on debt securities through structured notes and similar instruments. The Company sponsors financial asset securitizations of high yield debt securities, investment grade bonds and structured finance securities and also is the collateral manager and a beneficial interest holder in such transactions. As the collateral manager, the Company earns management fees on the outstanding securitized asset balance, which are recorded in income as earned. When the Company transfers assets to a bankruptcy remote SPE and surrenders control over the transferred assets, the transaction is accounted for as a sale. Gains or losses on securitizations are determined with reference to the carrying amount of the financial assets transferred, which is allocated to the assets sold and the beneficial interests retained based on relative fair values at the date of transfer. Beneficial interests in securitizations are carried at fair value in fixed maturities. Income on these beneficial interests is recognized using the prospective method. The SPEs used to securitize assets are not consolidated by the Company because the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities. Prior to the adoption of FIN 46(r), such SPEs were not consolidated because they did not meet the criteria for consolidation under previous accounting guidance. 89 The Company purchases or receives beneficial interests in SPEs, which generally acquire financial assets, including corporate equities, debt securities and purchased options. The Company has not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the SPEs and the Companys exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company uses the beneficial interests as part of its risk management strategy, including asset liability management. These SPEs are not consolidated by the Company because the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities based on the framework provided in FIN 46(r). Prior to the adoption of FIN 46(r), such SPEs were not consolidated because they did not meet the criteria for consolidation under previous accounting guidance. These beneficial interests are generally structured notes, which are included in fixed maturities, and their income is recognized using the retrospective interest method or the level yield method, as appropriate. Impairments of these beneficial interests are included in net investment gains (losses). The Company has sponsored four securitizations with a total of approximately $1,341 million and $1,431 million in financial assets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Companys beneficial interests in these SPEs as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related investment income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were insignificant. The Company invests in structured notes and similar type instruments, which generally provide equity based returns on debt securities. The carrying value of such investments was approximately $666 million and $880 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The related net investment income recognized was $45 million, $78 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. MORTGAGE AND OTHER LOANS The Companys mortgage and other loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and other loans comprised 13.6% and 11.8% of the Companys total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and other loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances. The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys mortgage and other loans by type at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Commercial mortgage loans.......................... $24,990 77.1% $20,300 77.3% Agricultural mortgage loans........................ 5,907 18.2 5,327 20.3 Other loans........................................ 1,509 4.7 622 2.4 Total......................................... $32,406 100.0% $26,249 100.0% 90 Commercial Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. The following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) REGION South Atlantic..................................... $ 5,696 22.8% $ 4,978 24.5% Pacific............................................ 6,075 24.3 5,005 24.7 Middle Atlantic.................................... 4,057 16.2 3,455 17.0 East North Central................................. 2,550 10.2 1,821 9.0 New England........................................ 1,412 5.6 1,278 6.3 West South Central................................. 2,024 8.1 1,370 6.8 Mountain........................................... 778 3.1 740 3.6 West North Central................................. 667 2.7 619 3.0 International...................................... 1,364 5.5 836 4.1 East South Central................................. 268 1.1 198 1.0 Other.............................................. 99 0.4 Total......................................... $24,990 100.0% $20,300 100.0% PROPERTY TYPE Office............................................. $11,500 46.0% $ 9,170 45.2% Retail............................................. 5,698 22.8 5,006 24.7 Apartments......................................... 3,264 13.1 2,832 13.9 Industrial......................................... 2,499 10.0 1,911 9.4 Hotel.............................................. 1,245 5.0 1,032 5.1 Other.............................................. 784 3.1 349 1.7 Total......................................... $24,990 100.0% $20,300 100.0% The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the Companys commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less............................ $ 939 3.7% $ 708 3.5% Due after one year through two years............... 1,800 7.2 1,065 5.2 Due after two years through three years............ 2,372 9.5 2,020 10.0 Due after three years through four years........... 2,943 11.8 2,362 11.6 Due after four years through five years............ 4,578 18.3 3,157 15.6 Due after five years............................... 12,358 49.5 10,988 54.1 Total......................................... $24,990 100.0% $20,300 100.0% Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. 91 The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness. The Company records valuation allowances for loans that it deems impaired. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans where a property or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future default, as well as for pools of loans with similar high risk characteristics where a property specific or market risk has not been identified. Such valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the mortgage loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the value of the loans collateral or the loans market value if the loan is being sold. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains (losses). The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Performing.................. $25,077 99.8% $128 0.5% $20,315 99.5% $ 95 0.5% Restructured................ 55 0.2 18 32.7% 77 0.4 23 29.9% Potentially delinquent...... 7 3 42.9% 30 0.1 4 13.3% Delinquent or under foreclosure............... Total................... $25,139 100.0% $149 0.6% $20,422 100.0% $122 0.6% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for commercial mortgage loans for the: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $122 $119 $134 Additions................................................... 53 51 38 Deductions.................................................. (26) (48) (53) Balance, end of year........................................ $149 $122 $119 Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic region and product type. Approximately 69% of the $5,907 million of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2004 were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans generally is successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans. 92 The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST(1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Performing.................. $5,803 98.1% $ 4 0.1% $5,162 96.7% $ 0.0% Restructured................ 67 1.1 0.0% 111 2.1 1 0.9% Potentially delinquent...... 4 0.1 1 25.0% 24 0.5 3 12.5% Delinquent or under foreclosure............... 40 0.7 2 5.0% 36 0.7 2 5.6% Total................... $5,914 100.0% $ 7 0.1% $5,333 100.0% $ 6 0.1% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans for the: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $ 6 $ 6 $ 9 Additions................................................... 5 1 3 Deductions.................................................. (4) (1) (6) Balance, end of year........................................ $ 7 $ 6 $ 6 Other Loans. Other loans consist of residential mortgages and auto loans. REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES The Companys real estate and real estate joint venture investments consist of commercial properties located primarily throughout the United States. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale was $4,233 million and $4,677 million, respectively, or 1.8%, and 2.1% of total cash and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint ventures is stated at the Companys equity in the real estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation allowances. The following table presents the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures, real estate held for sale and real estate acquired upon foreclosure at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL TYPE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Real estate held for investment..................... $3,592 84.9% $3,193 68.2% Real estate joint ventures held for investment...... 386 9.1 312 6.7 Foreclosed real estate held for investment.......... 3 0.1 2 0.1 3,981 94.1 3,507 75.0 Real estate held for sale........................... 251 5.9 1,169 25.0 Foreclosed real estate held for sale................ 1 1 252 5.9 1,170 25.0 Total real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale......................... $4,233 100.0% $4,677 100.0% 93 The Companys carrying value of real estate held for sale, including real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, in the amounts of $252 million and $1,170 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are net of valuation allowances of $4 million and $12 million, respectively, and net of prior year impairments of $6 million and $151 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure. Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See " Investments Variable Interest Entities." OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $2,907 million and $2,600 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor interest, has influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies and does not have a controlling interest. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually no influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies. The Companys investments in other limited partnerships represented 1.2% of cash and invested assets at both December 31, 2004 and 2003. Some of the Companys investments in other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See " Investments Variable Interest Entities." OTHER INVESTED ASSETS The Companys other invested assets consist principally of leveraged leases and funds withheld at interest of $3.9 billion at both December 31, 2004 and 2003. The leveraged leases are recorded net of non recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions, which are diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Other invested assets also include the fair value of embedded derivatives related to funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts. Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms and may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio. The Companys other invested assets represented 2.1% of cash and invested assets at both December 31, 2004 and 2003. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, future and option contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the Company enters into income generation and replication derivative transactions as permitted by its insurance subsidiaries Derivatives Use Plans approved by the applicable state insurance departments. 94 The table below provides a summary of the notional amount and current market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at: DECEMBER 31, 2004 DECEMBER 31, 2003 CURRENT MARKET OR CURRENT MARKET OR FAIR VALUE FAIR VALUE NOTIONAL NOTIONAL AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Interest rate swaps................. $12,681 $284 $ 22 $ 9,944 $189 $ 36 Interest rate floors................ 3,325 38 325 5 Interest rate caps.................. 7,045 12 9,345 29 Financial futures................... 611 13 1,348 8 30 Foreign currency swaps.............. 8,214 150 1,302 4,710 9 796 Foreign currency forwards........... 1,013 5 57 695 5 32 Options............................. 825 37 7 6,065 7 Financial forwards.................. 326 1,310 2 3 Credit default swaps................ 1,897 11 5 615 2 1 Synthetic GICs...................... 5,869 5,177 Other............................... 450 1 1 Total............................. $42,256 $538 $1,407 $39,534 $256 $898 VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES The Company has adopted the provisions of FIN 46 and FIN 46(r). See " Application of Recent Accounting Pronouncements." The adoption of FIN 46(r) required the Company to consolidate certain VIEs for which it is the primary beneficiary. The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2004, and (ii) it holds significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated: DECEMBER 31, 2004 PRIMARY BENEFICIARY NOT PRIMARY BENEFICIARY MAXIMUM MAXIMUM TOTAL EXPOSURE TO TOTAL EXPOSURE TO ASSETS(1) LOSS(2) ASSETS(1) LOSS(2) (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations.......... $ $ $1,418 $ 3 Real estate joint ventures(3).............. 15 13 132 Other limited partnerships(4).............. 249 191 914 146 Other structured investments(5)............ 856 103 Total.................................... $264 $204 $3,320 $252 (1) The assets of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value at December 31, 2004. The assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and other structured investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such assets would have been reflected on the Companys balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity. (2) The maximum exposure to loss of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to the carrying amounts of retained interests. In addition, the Company provides collateral management services for certain of these structures for which it collects a management fee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and other 95 structured investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners. (3) Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other ventures, which engage in the acquisition, development, management and disposal of real estate investments. (4) Other limited partnerships include partnerships established for the purpose of investing in real estate funds, public and private debt and equity securities, as well as limited partnerships established for the purpose of investing in low income housing that qualifies for federal tax credits. (5) Other structured investments include an offering of a collateralized fund of funds based on the securitization of a pool of private equity funds. SECURITIES LENDING The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $26,564 million and $25,121 million and an estimated fair value of $27,974 million and $26,387 million were on loan under the program at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $28,678 million and $27,083 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Security collateral on deposit from customers may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. SEPARATE ACCOUNTS The Company had $86.8 billion and $75.8 billion held in its separate accounts, for which the Company generally does not bear investment risk, as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company manages each separate accounts assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The Company establishes separate accounts on a single client and multi client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, on January 1, 2004, the Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Companys general account liabilities; (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of income. In connection with the adoption of SOP 03 1, separate account assets with a fair value of $1.7 billion were reclassified to general account investments with a corresponding transfer of separate account liabilities to future policy benefits and policyholder account balances. See " Application of Recent Accounting Pronouncements." The Companys revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are combined on a line by line basis with the Companys general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS COMMITMENTS TO FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were approximately $1,324 million and $1,380 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in the partnerships over the next three to five years. 96 MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $1,189 million and $679 million, respectively, at December 31, 2004 and 2003. GUARANTEES In the course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $800 million, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees in the future. In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by laws. Also, the Company indemnifies other of its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Companys interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these indemnities in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded liabilities of $10 million with respect to indemnities provided in certain dispositions. The approximate term for these liabilities ranges from 12 to 18 months. The maximum potential amount of future payments that MetLife could be required to pay is $73 million. Due to the uncertainty in assessing changes to the liabilities over the term, the liability on the balance sheet will remain until either expiration or settlement of the guarantee unless evidence clearly indicates that the estimates should be revised. The fair value of the remaining indemnities, guarantees and commitments entered into during 2004 was insignificant and thus, no liabilities were recorded. The Companys recorded liability at December 31, 2004 and 2003 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments, excluding amounts recorded during 2004 as described in the preceding sentences, is insignificant. ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE On December 16, 2004, the Holding Company repurchased 7,281,553 shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $300 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and is purchasing the shares in the open market over the next few months to return to the lenders. The Holding Company will either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the shares. The final purchase price is expected to be determined in April 2005, and will be settled in either cash or Holding Company stock at the Holding Companys option. The Holding Company recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and will record any amount paid or received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. 97 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Committees ("A/LM Committees") and additional specialists at the business segment level. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. MARKET RISK EXPOSURES The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. The Company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Companys products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. Equity prices. The Companys investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities which involve long term guarantees on equity performance. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. The Company also manages equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies which create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are the Euro, Canadian dollars and British pounds. The Company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily exposed to the Mexican peso, South Korean won, Chilean peso and Taiwanese dollar. The Company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. In some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate risk management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. 98 MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the Holding Companys Board of Directors and various financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/liability management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Business Finance Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific A/LM Committees. The A/LM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the A/LM Committees. Each of MetLifes business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. New York State Department of Insurance regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, 99 consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. Hedging activities. MetLifes risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities to reduce interest rate risk. Such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. In 2004, MetLife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. Economic Capital. Beginning in 2003, the Company changed its methodology of allocating capital to its business segments from Risk Based Capital ("RBC") to Economic Capital. Prior to 2003, the Companys business segments allocated equity was primarily based on RBC, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the NAIC Statutory Risk Based Capital and included certain adjustments in accordance with GAAP. Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The Economic Capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Companys businesses. This change in methodology is being applied prospectively. This change has and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the Companys business segments. A portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This change in methodology of allocating equity does not impact the Companys consolidated net investment income or net income. RISK MEASUREMENT; SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2004 to re price its invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of MetLifes market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non trading invested assets and other financial instruments. The Company does not maintain a trading portfolio. The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: Fair values. The Company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Companys currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates; and the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices. 100 Earnings and cash flows. MetLife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage backed securities; the re estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives which qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2004. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the Companys equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2004 is set forth in the table below. The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys portfolio, all of which is non trading, as of the period indicated was: DECEMBER 31, 2004 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Interest rate risk.......................................... $3,650 Equity price risk........................................... $ 167 Foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 601 101 The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2004 by type of asset or liability. AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2004 ASSUMING A 10% INCREASE NOTIONAL IN THE YIELD AMOUNT FAIR VALUE CURVE (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) ASSETS Fixed maturities..................................... $ $176,763 $(3,651) Mortgage loans on real estate........................ 33,902 (534) Equity securities.................................... 2,188 Short term investments............................... 2,663 6 Cash and cash equivalents............................ 4,051 Policy loans......................................... 8,899 (290) Mortgage loan commitments............................ 1,189 4 (5) Total assets.................................... $(4,474) LIABILITIES Policyholder account balances........................ $ $ 69,688 $ 450 Short term debt...................................... 1,445 Long term debt....................................... 7,818 264 Shares subject to mandatory redemption............... $ $ 365 $ 1 Payable under securities loaned transactions......... 28,678 Total liabilities............................... $ 715 OTHER Derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) Swaps.............................................. $22,792 $ (884) $ 95 Futures............................................ 611 (13) 8 Forwards........................................... 1,339 (52) Options............................................ 17,514 80 6 Total other..................................... $ 109 NET CHANGE........................................... $(3,650) In addition to the analysis discussed above, the Company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity of its insurance and interest sensitive liabilities to changes in interest rates as a part of its asset liability management program. As of December 31, 2004, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the Companys insurance and interest sensitive liabilities and their associated operating asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $227 million. Management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the Company. 102 
 
