ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For purposes of this discussion, the terms "MetLife" or the "Company" refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life"). Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements which constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and other similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the Company. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors; (iii) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (iv) MetLife, Inc.s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (v) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life; (vi) catastrophe losses; (vii) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (viii) regulatory, accounting or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the Companys products or services; (ix) downgrades in the Companys and its affiliates claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (x) changes in rating agency policies or practices; (xi) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the Companys products and establishing the liabilities for the Companys obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (xii) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xiv) the Companys ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; and (xv) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.s filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including its S 1 and S 3 registration statements. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ECONOMIC CAPITAL Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The Economic Capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Companys businesses. 58 As part of the economic capital process a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of P.T. Sejahtera ("MetLife Indonesia") to a third party resulting in a gain upon disposal of $10 million, net of income taxes. As a result of this sale, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of $5 million, net of income taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company reclassified the assets, liabilities and operations of MetLife Indonesia into discontinued operations for all periods presented. On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, that is primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and not for profit markets, for approximately $56 million, of which $2 million was allocated to goodwill and $54 million to other identifiable intangibles, specifically the value of customer relationships acquired, which has a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. CitiStreet Associates will be integrated with MetLife Resources, a division of MetLife dedicated to providing retirement plans and financial services to the same markets. On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company ("TIC"), excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup"), and substantially all of Citigroups international insurance businesses (collectively, "Travelers"), for $12.0 billion. The results of Travelers operations were included in the Companys consolidated financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Companys core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Companys presence in both the retirement & savings domestic and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition will provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry. Consideration paid by the Holding Company for the purchase consisted of approximately $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Holding Companys common stock with a market value of approximately $1.0 billion to Citigroup and approximately $100 million in other transaction costs. Consideration paid to Citigroup will be finalized subject to review of the June 30, 2005 financial statements of Travelers by both the Company and Citigroup and interpretation of the provisions of the acquisition agreement by both parties. In addition to cash on hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock as described above, debt securities, common equity units and preferred shares. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources." On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM Holdings, Inc. ("SSRM") to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of approximately $157 million, net of income taxes, comprised of a realized gain of $165 million, net of income taxes, and an operating expense related to a lease abandonment of $8 million, net of income taxes. Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive, prior to the end of 2006, payments aggregating up to approximately 25% of the base purchase price, based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife related business. Also under the terms of such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive additional consideration for the retention of certain customers for a specific period in 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, upon finalization of the computation, the Company received a payment of $12 million, net of income taxes, due to the retention of these specific customer accounts. The Company reclassified the assets, liabilities and operations of SSRM into discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, the sale of SSRM resulted in the elimination of the Companys Asset Management segment. The remaining asset management business, which is insignificant, has been reclassified into Corporate & Other. The Companys discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 also includes expenses of approximately $6 million, net of income taxes, related to the sale of SSRM. In 2003, a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA"), entered into a coinsurance agreement under which it assumed the traditional U.S. life reinsurance business of Allianz 59 Life Insurance Company of North America ("Allianz Life"). The transaction added approximately $278 billion of life reinsurance in force, $246 million of premiums and $11 million of income before income tax expense, excluding minority interest expense, in 2003. The effects of such transaction are included within the Reinsurance segment. In 2002, the Company acquired Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), an insurance company based in Mexico with approximately $2.5 billion in assets as of the date of acquisition (June 20, 2002). During the second quarter of 2003, as a part of its acquisition and integration strategy, the International segment completed the legal merger of Hidalgo into its original Mexican subsidiary, Seguro Genesis, S.A., forming MetLife Mexico, S.A. As a result of the merger of these companies, the Company recorded $62 million of earnings, net of income taxes, from the merger and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in methodology in determining the liability for future policy benefits. Such benefit was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 in the International segment. IMPACT OF HURRICANES On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama causing catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. As of December 31, 2005, the Company recognized total net losses related to the catastrophe of $134 million, net of income taxes and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments, which impacted the Auto & Home and Institutional segments. The Auto & Home and Institutional segments recorded net losses related to the catastrophe of $120 million and $14 million, each net of income taxes and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments, respectively. MetLifes gross losses from Katrina were approximately $335 million, primarily arising from the Companys homeowners business. On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across the state of Florida. As of December 31, 2005, the Companys Auto & Home segment recognized total losses related to the catastrophe of $32 million, net of income taxes and reinsurance recoverables. MetLifes gross losses from Hurricane Wilma were approximately $57 million arising from the Companys homeowners and automobile businesses. Additional hurricane related losses may be recorded in future periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent on the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition, lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in Mississippi and Louisiana challenging denial of claims for damages caused to their property during Hurricane Katrina. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company ("MPC") is a named party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases in which MPC is not a party may affect interpretation of its policies. MPC intends to vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings could result in an increase in the Companys hurricane related claim exposure and losses. Based on information currently known by management, it does not believe that additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) investment impairments; (ii) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; (iii) application of the consolidation rules to certain investments; (iv) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; (v) the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"), including value of business acquired ("VOBA"); (vi) the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (vii) the liability for future policyholder benefits; (viii) accounting for reinsurance transactions;(ix) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters; and (x) accounting for employee benefit plans. The application of purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical estimates. In applying these policies, management 60 makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. INVESTMENTS The Companys principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage and consumer loans, other limited partnerships, and real estate and real estate joint ventures, all of which are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks are those associated with the recognition of impairments and income, as well as the determination of fair values. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Companys ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on asset backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. In addition, the earnings on certain investments are dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned due to changing interest rates or equity markets. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. In addition, the Company enters into certain structured investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary and, therefore, may be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entitys expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party. DERIVATIVES The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions primarily to manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in fair values related to the Companys financial assets and liabilities. The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its currency exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign operations. The Company also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance policies and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. The associated financial statement risk is the volatility in net income which can result from (i) changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as accounting hedges; (ii) ineffectiveness of designated hedges; and (iii) counterparty default. In addition, there is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation are not identified and reported at fair value in the consolidated financial statements. Accounting for derivatives is complex, as evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting standards which continue to evolve, as well as the significant judgments and estimates involved in determining fair value in the absence of quoted market values. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Such assumptions include estimated volatility and interest rates used in the determination of fair value where quoted market values are not available. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. 61 DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND VALUE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. These costs, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of that business, are deferred. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates of gross margins and profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. VOBA, included in DAC, reflects the estimated fair value of in force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in force at the acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in the impairment of the asset and a charge to income if estimated future gross margins and profits are less than amounts deferred. In addition, the Company utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a common industry practice, in its determination of the amortization of DAC. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but that it does change when large interim deviations have occurred. GOODWILL Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the "reporting unit" level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business that is one level below the operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within Corporate & Other is allocated to reporting units within the Companys business segments. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market multiple or discounted cash flow model. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount rate. LIABILITY FOR FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM EXPENSES The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities and non medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns and inflation. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. The Company also establishes liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty claim insurance which represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. 62 Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and in the establishment of liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. REINSURANCE The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company must determine if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company must review all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. LITIGATION The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys consolidated financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables used to determine amounts recorded. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal and financial personnel. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company sponsor pension and other retirement plans in various forms covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the Company. Management determines these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, historical performance of the plan and its assets, and consultation with an independent consulting actuarial firm. These assumptions used by the Company may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. FINANCIAL CONDITION As a result of the Travelers acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Companys core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Companys presence in both 63 the retirement & savings domestic and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition will provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry. The Travelers assets and liabilities acquired of $102 billion and $90 billion, respectively, have been included in the consolidated balance sheet of the Company at their estimated fair market values as of the date of acquisition, July 1, 2005, and significantly increased the Companys assets and liabilities in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2005, as included elsewhere herein. The purchase price of $12 billion was financed through the issuance of common stock of $1 billion to Citigroup, issuances to the public of preferred stock of $2 billion, common equity units of $2 billion and debt securities of $3 billion and the use of cash on hand of $4 billion. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services to millions of individual and institutional customers throughout the United States. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance and retail banking services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. Outside the United States, the MetLife companies have direct insurance operations in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe. MetLife is organized into five operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home, International and Reinsurance, as well as Corporate & Other. The managements discussion and analysis which follows isolates, in order to be meaningful, the results of the Travelers acquisition in the period over period comparison as the Travelers acquisition was not included in the results of the Company until July 1, 2005. The Travelers amounts which have been isolated represent the results of the Travelers legal entities which have been acquired. These amounts represent the impact of the Travelers acquisition; however, as business currently transacted through the acquired Travelers legal entities is transitioned to legal entities already owned by the Company, some of which has already occurred, the identification of the Travelers legal entity business will not necessarily be indicative of the impact of the Travelers acquisition on the results of the Company. As a part of the Travelers acquisition, management realigned certain products and services within several of the Companys segments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, all prior period segment results have been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. Also in connection with the Travelers acquisition, management has utilized its economic capital model to evaluate the deployment of capital based upon the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Companys existing and newly acquired businesses and has adjusted such allocations based upon this model. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 The Company reported $4,651 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $2,758 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $3.65 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $233 million to net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of Travelers, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,660 million in the 2005 period. The years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 include the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $71 million, net of income taxes, to the year ended December 31, 2005 and a benefit of $113 million, net of income taxes, to the comparable 2004 period. Excluding the impact of these items, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,702 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior 2004 period. 64 In 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, which, combined, resulted in a gain of $1,193 million, net of income taxes. In addition, during 2005, the Company completed the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia and recognized gains of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income taxes. In 2004, the Company completed the sale of the Sears Tower property resulting in a gain of $85 million, net of income taxes. Accordingly, income from discontinued operations and, correspondingly, net income, increased by $1,368 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the 2004 period primarily as a result of the aforementioned sales. These increases were partially offset by an increase in net investment losses of $170 million, net of income taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the corresponding period in 2004. The acquisition of Travelers contributed a loss of $132 million, net of income taxes, to this decrease. Excluding the impact of Travelers, net investment gains (losses) decreased by $38 million, net of income taxes, in the 2005 period. This decrease is primarily due to losses on fixed maturity security sales resulting from continued portfolio repositioning in the 2005 period. Significantly offsetting these reductions is an increase in gains from the mark to market on derivatives in 2005. The derivative gains resulted from changes in the value of the dollar versus major foreign currencies, including the euro and pound sterling, and changes in U.S. interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in net income available to common shareholders during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the prior year is partially due to the decrease in net income available to common shareholders in the prior year of $86 million, net of income taxes, as a result of a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in 2004 recorded in accordance with Statement of Position ("SOP") 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts ("SOP 03 1"). In addition, during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company paid $63 million in dividends on its Series A and Series B preferred shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers. The remaining increase in net income available to common shareholders of $349 million is primarily due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues primarily from continued sales growth across most of the Companys business segments, as well as the positive impact of the U.S. financial markets on policy fees. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. In addition, continued strong investment spreads are largely due to higher than expected net investment income from corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Partially offsetting these increases is a rise in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, integration costs, corporate incentive expenses, non deferrable volume related expenses, corporate support expenses and DAC amortization. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 The Company reported $2,758 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $3.65 for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $2,196 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $2.94 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Continued top line revenue growth across all of the Companys business segments, strong interest rate spreads and an improvement in net investment gains (losses) are the leading contributors to the 26% increase in net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004 over the comparable 2003 period. Total premiums, fees and other revenues increased to $26.3 billion, up 8%, from the year ended December 31, 2003, primarily from continued sales growth across most of the Companys business segments, as well as the positive impact of the U.S. financial markets on policy fees. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. Continued strong investment spreads are largely due to higher than expected net investment income from corporate joint 65 venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. In addition, an improvement in net investment gains (losses), net of income taxes, of $461 million is primarily due to the more favorable economic environment in 2004. These increases are partially offset by an $86 million, net of income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in 2004 recorded in accordance with SOP 03 1. In comparison, in the 2003 period the Company recorded a $26 million charge for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B36, Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposures That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor under Those Instruments ("Issue B36"). INDUSTRY TRENDS The Companys segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the industry. Financial Environment. The current financial environment presents a challenge for the life insurance industry. A low general level of short term and long term interest rates can have a negative impact on the demand for and the profitability of spread based products such as fixed annuities, guaranteed interest contracts and universal life insurance. In addition, continued low interest rates could put pressure on interest spreads on existing blocks of business as declining investment portfolio yields draw closer to minimum crediting rate guarantees on certain products. The compression of the yields between spread based products and interest rates will be a concern until new money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall life insurer investment portfolio yields. Recent volatile equity market performance has also presented challenges for life insurers, as fee revenue from variable annuities and pension products is tied to separate account balances, which reflect equity market performance. Also, variable annuity product demand often mirrors consumer demand for equity market investments. Improving Economy. A recovery in the employment market combined with higher corporate confidence should improve demand for group insurance and retirement & savings type products. Group insurance premium growth, for example, with respect to life and disability products, are closely tied to employers total payroll growth. Additionally, the potential market for these products is expanded by new business creation. Bond portfolio credit losses have also benefited from an increasingly healthy economy. Demographics. In the coming decade, a key driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation, protection and transfer needs of the retiring Baby Boomers the first of whom have entered their pre retirement, peak savings years. As a result of increasing longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping the Baby Boomers accumulate assets for retirement and subsequently converting these assets into retirement income represents a transformative opportunity for the life insurance industry. Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby Boomers rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for income protection. In light of recent Social Security reform and pension solvency concerns, "protection" is what sets the U.S. life insurance industry apart from other financial services providers pursuing the retiring Baby Boomer segment. The Company believes that, among life insurers, those with strong brands, high financial strength ratings, and broad distribution, are best positioned to capitalize on the opportunity to offer income protection products to Baby Boomers. Moreover, the life insurance industrys products and the needs they are designed to address are complex. The Company believes that individuals approaching retirement age will need to seek advice to plan for and manage their retirements and that, in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility for their benefit options and retirement planning, they will need individually tailored advice. The challenge for the life insurance industry remains delivering tailored advice in a cost effective manner. Competitive Pressures. The life insurance industry is becoming increasingly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, 66 product development and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industrys products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition, and sufficient scale, financial strength and flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. Regulatory Changes. The life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulation recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements for several of the industrys products. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products including equity indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. DISCUSSION OF RESULTS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $24,860 $22,200 $20,575 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 3,828 2,867 2,495 Net investment income................................... 14,910 12,364 11,472 Other revenues.......................................... 1,271 1,198 1,199 Net investment gains (losses)........................... (93) 175 (551) Total revenues........................................ 44,776 38,804 35,190 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 25,506 22,662 20,811 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 3,925 2,997 3,035 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1,679 1,666 1,731 Other expenses.......................................... 9,267 7,813 7,168 Total expenses........................................ 40,377 35,138 32,745 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 4,399 3,666 2,445 Provision for income taxes.............................. 1,260 1,029 616 Income from continuing operations....................... 3,139 2,637 1,829 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 1,575 207 414 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes....................... 4,714 2,844 2,243 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes.......................................... (86) (26) Net income.............................................. 4,714 2,758 2,217 Preferred stock dividends............................... 63 Charge for conversion of company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of a subsidiary trust........... 21 Net income available to common shareholders............. $ 4,651 $ 2,758 $ 2,196 67 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 THE COMPANY Income from continuing operations increased by $502 million, or 19%, to $3,139 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,637 million in the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $233 million of income from continuing operations related to the acquisition of Travelers. Included in the Travelers results is a charge for the establishment of an excess mortality reserve related to group of specific policies. In connection with MetLifes acquisition of Travelers, the Company has performed reviews of Travelers underwriting criteria in its effort to refine its estimated fair values for the purchase price allocation. As a result of these reviews and actuarial analyses, and to be consistent with MetLifes existing reserving methodologies, the Company has established an excess mortality reserve on a specific group of policies. This resulted in a charge of $20 million, net of income taxes, to fourth quarter results. The Company expects to complete its reviews and refine its estimate of the excess mortality reserve by June 30, 2006. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations increased by $269 million, or 10%. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 includes the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $71 million, net of income taxes, to the year ended December 31, 2005 and a benefit of $113 million, net of income taxes, to the comparable 2004 period. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $311 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior 2004 period. The Individual segment contributed $248 million, net of income taxes, to the increase, as a result of interest rate spreads, increased fee income related to the growth in separate account products, favorable underwriting, a decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation, lower annuity net guaranteed benefit costs and lower DAC amortization. These increases were partially offset by lower net investment income, net investment losses and higher operating costs offset by revisions to certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liability estimates in the current year and write offs of certain assets in the prior year. The Institutional segment contributed $50 million, net of income taxes, to this increase primarily due to favorable interest spreads, partially offset by a decrease in net investment gains, an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain long term care products in 2005, unfavorable underwriting and an increase in other expenses. The Auto & Home segment contributed $16 million, net of income taxes, to the 2005 increase primarily due to improvements in the development of prior year claims, the non catastrophe combined ratio, and losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan, as well as an increase in net investment income and earned premium. These increases in the Auto & Home segment were partially offset by an increase in catastrophes as a result of the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and an increase in other expenses. The Reinsurance segment contributed $9 million, net of income taxes, to this increase primarily due to premium growth and higher net investment income, partially offset by unfavorable mortality as a result of higher claim levels in the U.S. and U.K. and a reduction in net investment gains. The International segment contributed $9 million, net of income taxes, primarily due to business growth in South Korea, Chile and Mexico. These increases in the International segment were partially offset by an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment gains (losses) on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, an increase in expenses for start up costs and contingency liabilities in Mexico, as well as a decrease in Canada primarily due to a realignment of economic capital offset by the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year and higher oversight and infrastructure expenditures in support of the segment growth. These increases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by a decrease of $21 million, net of income taxes, in Corporate & Other. The decrease in Corporate & Other is primarily due to higher interest expense on debt, integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers, higher interest credited on bank holder deposits and legal related liabilities, partially offset by an increase in net investment income, higher net investment gains and a decrease in corporate support expenses. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $3,694 million, or 14%, to $29,959 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $26,265 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $1,009 million of premium, fees and other revenues related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, premium, fees and other revenues increased by $2,685 million, or 10%. The Institutional segment contributed $1,266 million, or 47%, to the year over year increase. The Institutional 68 segment increase is primarily due to sales growth and the acquisition of new business in the non medical health & other business, as well as improved sales and favorable persistency in group life and higher structured settlement sales and pension close outs in retirement & savings. The Reinsurance segment contributed $523 million, or 19%, to the Companys year over year increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. This growth is primarily attributable to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, as well as favorable exchange rate movements. The International segment contributed $452 million, or 17%, to the year over year increase primarily due to business growth through increased sales and renewal business in Mexico, South Korea, Brazil, and Taiwan, as well as changes in foreign currency rates. In addition, Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to the new bank distribution channel established in 2005. The Individual segment contributed $445 million, or 17%, to the year over year increase primarily due to higher fee income from variable annuity and universal life products, active marketing of income annuity products and growth in the business in traditional life products. The growth in traditional products more than offset the decline in premiums in the Companys closed block business as this business continues to run off. Corporate & Other contributed $38 million, or 1%, to the year over year increase, primarily due to intersegment eliminations. The increase in premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a decrease in the Auto & Home segment of $39 million, or 1%. This decrease is primarily attributable to reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums due to Hurricane Katrina. Interest rate margins, which generally represent the margin between net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances, increased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior year period. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees, the timing and amount of which are generally unpredictable and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. If interest rates remain low, it could result in compression of the Companys interest rate spreads on several of its products, which provide guaranteed minimum rates of return to policyholders. This compression could adversely impact the Companys future financial results. Underwriting results were favorable within the life products in the Individual and Institutional segments, while underwriting results were unfavorable in the Reinsurance segment and in the retirement & savings and non medical health & other products within the Institutional segment. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2005, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes and before the reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments due to Hurricane Katrina, decreased to 86.7% from 90.4% in the prior year period. Offsetting the improved non catastrophe ratios in the Auto & Home segment was an increase in catastrophes primarily due to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Underwriting results in the International segment increased commensurate with the growth in the business as discussed above. Other expenses increased by $1,454 million, or 19%, to $9,267 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $7,813 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $618 million of other expenses related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased by $836 million, or 11%. The year ended December 31, 2005 includes a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to the Companys demutualization in 2000. The year ended December 31, 2004 reflects a $49 million reduction of a premium tax liability and a $22 million reduction of a liability for interest associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. These decreases were partially offset by a $50 million contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other expenses increased by $843 million, or 11%, from the comparable 2004 period. Corporate & Other contributed $413 million, or 49%, 69 to the year over year variance primarily due to higher interest expense, integration costs associated with the Travelers acquisition, growth in interest credited to bank holder deposits at MetLife Bank, National Association ("MetLife Bank" or "MetLife Bank, N.A.") and legal related liabilities, partially offset by a reduction in corporate support expenses. The Institutional segment contributed $178 million, or 21%, to the year over year variance primarily due to higher non deferrable volume related expenses associated with general business growth, corporate support expenses, higher expenses related to additional Travelers incentive accruals, as well as an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain long term care products in 2005. In addition, $174 million, or 21%, of this increase is primarily attributable to higher amortization of DAC, changes in foreign currency rates, business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above, a decrease in the payroll tax liability and an accrual for an early retirement program in the International segment. Other expenses in the International segment also increased due to higher consultant fees for growth initiative projects, an increase in compensation and incentive expenses, as well as higher costs for legal, marketing and other corporate allocated expenses. The Reinsurance segment also contributed $34 million, or 4%, to the increase in other expenses primarily due to an increase in the amortization of DAC. The Auto & Home segment contributed $33 million, or 4%, to this increase primarily due to increased information technology, advertising and incentive and other compensation costs. In addition, the Individual segment contributed $11 million, or 1%, to the year over year increase primarily due to higher corporate incentive expenses and general spending, partially offset by the revision of prior period estimates for certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liabilities, as well as certain asset write offs in the prior year and lower DAC amortization. Net investment gains (losses) decreased by $268 million, or 153%, to a loss of $93 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from a net investment gain of $175 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current year includes $208 million of net investment losses related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, net investment gains (losses) decreased by $60 million, or 34%. This decrease is primarily due to losses on fixed maturity security sales resulting from continued portfolio repositioning in the 2005 period. Significantly offsetting these reductions is an increase in gains from the mark to market on derivatives in 2005. The derivative gains resulted from changes in the value of the dollar versus major foreign currencies, including the euro and pound sterling, and changes in U.S. interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 is $1,260 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $1,029 million, or 28%, for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $80 million of income tax expense related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 is $1,180 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $1,029 million, or 28%, for the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. In addition, the 2005 effective tax rate reflects a tax benefit of $27 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a benefit of $31 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2004 had been made. The 2004 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a decrease in the deferred tax valuation allowance to recognize the effect of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards in South Korea, and the contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. In addition, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment for the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999 and an adjustment of a benefit of $9 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2003. Income from discontinued operations is comprised of the operations and the gain upon disposal from the sale of MetLife Indonesia on September 29, 2005 and SSRM on January 31, 2005, as well as net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company has classified as available for sale or has sold. Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, increased by $1,368 million, or 70 661%, to $1,575 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $207 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $1,193 million, net of income taxes, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, and the gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income taxes, in the year ended December 31, 2005. Partially offsetting this increase is the gain on the sale of the Sears Tower property of $85 million, net of income taxes, in the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an $86 million charge, net of income taxes, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in accordance with SOP 03 1, which provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. This charge is primarily related to those long duration contract liabilities where the amount of the liability is indexed to the performance of a target portfolio of investment securities. In addition, during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company paid $63 million in dividends on its Series A and Series B preferred shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 THE COMPANY Income from continuing operations increased by $808 million, or 44%, to $2,637 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $1,829 million in the comparable 2003 period. Income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 includes the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $113 million, net of income taxes, to the year ended December 31, 2004 and a benefit of $159 million, net of income taxes, to the comparable 2003 period. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $854 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior 2003 period. This increase is primarily the result of an improvement in net investment gains (losses), net of income taxes, of $461 million. Also contributing to the increase is higher earnings from interest rate spreads of approximately $306 million, net of income taxes, in the Institutional and Individual segments. Additionally, the Individual segment contributed $186 million, net of income taxes, as a result of increased income from policy fees on investment type products partially offset by higher amortization associated with DAC of $72 million, net of income taxes, and a reduction in earnings of $101 million, net of income taxes, resulting from an increase in the closed block policyholder dividend obligation. In addition, the Auto & Home segments earnings increased primarily due to an improved non catastrophe combined ratio and favorable claim development related to prior accident years of $113 million, net of income taxes. This increase was partially offset by higher catastrophe losses of $73 million, net of income taxes, in 2004. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $1,996 million, or 8%, to $26,265 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $24,269 million for the comparable 2003 period. The Institutional segment contributed 53% to the year over year increase. This increase stems largely from sales growth and the acquisitions of new businesses in the group life and the non medical health & other businesses, as well as an increase in structured settlements sales and pension close outs. The Reinsurance segment contributed approximately 36% to the Companys year over year increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. This growth is primarily attributable to this segments coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life and continued growth in its traditional life reinsurance operations. The Individual segment contributed 6% to the year over year increase primarily due to higher fee income, partially offset by a reduction in the Companys closed block premiums as the business continues to run off. Interest rate spreads, which generally represent the margin between net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances, increased across the Institutional and Individual segments during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior year period. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial 71 mortgage prepayment fees for which the timing and amount are generally unpredictable and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results in the Institutional and Individual segments in the year ended December 31, 2004 were less favorable compared to the 2003 period. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality and morbidity trends, claim experience and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business, and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results in the Auto & Home segment were favorable in 2004 as the combined ratio declined to 90.4%, excluding catastrophes, from 97.1% in the prior year period. This result is largely due to continued improvement in both auto and homeowner claim frequencies, lower auto severities and an increase in average earned premiums. Other expenses increased by $645 million, or 9%, to $7,813 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $7,168 million for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 period reflects a $49 million reduction of a premium tax liability and a $22 million reduction of a liability for interest associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. These decreases were partially offset by a $50 million contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. The 2003 period includes the impact of a $144 million reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement. In addition, the 2003 period includes a $48 million charge related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial and a $45 million charge related to VOBA associated with a change in methodology in determining the liability for future policy benefits in the Companys International segment. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other expenses increased by $615 million, or 9%, from the comparable 2003 period. The Reinsurance segment contributed 31% to this year over year variance primarily due to the growth in expenses associated with the Allianz Life acquisition and continued revenue growth, as mentioned above. In addition, 27% of this variance is primarily attributable to increases in direct business support expenses and non deferrable commission expenses associated with general business growth, as well as infrastructure improvements, partially offset by costs in 2003 associated with office consolidations and an impairment of assets in the Institutional segment. The Individual segment contributed 23% to this increase primarily due to accelerated DAC amortization, as well as an increase in expenses associated with general business growth. The remainder of the increase is the result of general business growth across the remaining segments and Corporate & Other. Net investment gains (losses) increased by $726 million, or 132%, to a net investment gain of $175 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from a net investment loss of ($551) million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily due to the more favorable economic environment in 2004. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $1,029 million, or 28% of income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, compared with $616 million, or 25%, for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a decrease in the deferred tax valuation allowance to recognize the effect of certain foreign net operating loss carryforward in South Korea, and the contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. In addition, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of $91 million for the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of $9 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2003. The 2003 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, and tax benefits related to the sale of foreign subsidiaries. In addition, the 2003 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment of a benefit of $36 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income taxes for 2002. The income from discontinued operations is comprised of the operations of SSRM and net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company has classified as available for sale. The Company entered into an agreement to sell SSRM during the third quarter of 2004. As previously discussed, SSRM was sold effective January 31, 2005. 72 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, decreased $207 million, or 50%, to $207 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $414 million for the comparable 2003 period. The decrease is primarily due to lower recognized net investment gains from real estate properties sold in 2004 as compared to the prior year. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized $146 million and $420 million of net investment gains, respectively, from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an $86 million charge, net of income taxes, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in accordance with SOP 03 1, which provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. This charge is primarily related to those long duration contract liabilities where the amount of the liability is indexed to the performance of a target portfolio of investment securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a $26 million charge, net of income taxes, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting in accordance with Issue B36. INSTITUTIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Institutional segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $11,387 $10,037 $ 9,063 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 772 711 660 Net investment income................................... 5,962 4,582 4,146 Other revenues.......................................... 653 654 618 Net investment gains (losses)........................... (10) 163 (289) Total revenues........................................ 18,764 16,147 14,198 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 12,776 11,173 10,023 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 1,652 1,016 974 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1 (1) Other expenses.......................................... 2,229 1,972 1,854 Total expenses........................................ 16,658 14,161 12,850 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 2,106 1,986 1,348 Provision for income taxes.............................. 706 678 485 Income from continuing operations....................... 1,400 1,308 863 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes.......................................... 162 19 49 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes....................... 1,562 1,327 912 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes.......................................... (60) (26) Net income.............................................. $ 1,562 $ 1,267 $ 886 73 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 INSTITUTIONAL Income from continuing operations increased by $92 million, or 7%, to $1,400 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $1,308 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $73 million of this increase, which includes $57 million, net of income taxes, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, income from continuing operations increased by $19 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2004 period. An increase in interest margins of $124 million, net of income taxes, compared to the prior year period contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. Management attributes this increase primarily to improvements in interest spreads for the retirement & savings and non medical health products of $81 million and $44 million, both net of income taxes, respectively. Higher earnings from growth in the asset base, interest on economic capital, corporate and real estate joint venture income and income from securities lending activities are the primary drivers of the year over year increase. Interest margins in group life were relatively flat with a decrease of $1 million. The interest margins in the retirement & savings and the group life businesses include the impact of a reduction in interest spreads compared to the prior year period. Interest spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased to 3.38% from 3.06% in the prior year period for the non medical health & other business. Interest rate spreads for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased to 1.81% and 2.04% from 1.83% and 2.19%, in the prior year period for the retirement and savings and group life businesses, respectively. Management generally expects these spreads to be in the range of 1.30% to 1.60%, 1.20% to 1.35%, and 1.60% to 1.80% for the non medical health & other, retirement & savings, and the group life businesses, respectively. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees for which the timing and amount are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may fluctuate from period to period. The increase in interest margins is partially offset by a decrease of $57 million, net of income taxes, in net investment gains (losses), which is partially offset by a decrease of $10 million, net of income taxes, in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Also contributing to the decline in income from continuing operations is a $14 million charge, net of income taxes, related to an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain long term care products in 2005 and a reduction of a premium tax liability of $31 million, net of income taxes, recorded in 2004. Underwriting results decreased by $7 million, net of income taxes, compared to the prior year. This decline is primarily due to less favorable results of $27 million, net of income taxes, in retirement & savings and a $24 million, net of income taxes, decrease in non medical health & other. These unfavorable results were partially offset by an improvement of $44 million, net of income taxes, in group lifes underwriting results, primarily due to favorable claim experience. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. In addition, increases in operating expenses, which include higher expenses related to the Travelers integration, have more than offset the remaining growth in premiums, fees and other revenues. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $2,790 million, or 17%, to $18,774 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $15,984 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $855 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,935 million, or 12%, from the comparable 2004 period. This increase is comprised of growth in premiums, fees and other revenues of $1,266 million and higher net investment income of $669 million. The increase of $1,266 million in premiums, fees, and other revenues is largely due to an increase in non medical health & other of $520 million, primarily due to growth in the disability, dental and accidental death and dismemberment ("AD&D") products of $360 million. In addition, continued growth in the long term care business contributed $138 million, of which $25 million is related to the 2004 acquisition of TIAA/CREFs long term care business. Group life insurance 74 premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $481 million, which management primarily attributes to improved sales and favorable persistency, as well as a significant increase in premiums from two large customers. Retirement & savings premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $265 million, which is largely due to growth in premiums, resulting primarily from an increase of $166 million in structured settlement sales and $107 million in pension close outs. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement & savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions, and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. In addition, net investment income increased by $669 million primarily due to higher income from growth in the asset base driven by sales, particularly in guaranteed interest contracts and the structured settlement business. In addition, increases in corporate and real estate joint venture income, interest on economic capital, and income from securities lending activities across the majority of the businesses, and higher short term interest rates contributed to the growth compared to the prior year. Total expenses increased by $2,497 million, or 18%, to $16,658 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $14,161 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $658 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, total expenses increased by $1,839 million, or 13%, from the comparable 2004 period. This increase is comprised of higher policyholder benefits and claims of $1,278 million, an increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances of $334 million and an increase in other expenses of $227 million. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $1,278 million is attributable to a $482 million, a $452 million, and a $344 million increase in the non medical health & other, group life, and retirement & savings businesses, respectively. These increases are predominantly attributable to the business growth referenced in the revenue discussion above. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims in the non medical health & other business include the impact of the acquisition of TIAA/CREF of $43 million. These increases include $2 million and $18 million of policyholder benefits and claims related to Hurricane Katrina in the group life and non medical health & other business, respectively. The increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances of $334 million is primarily the result of the impact of growth in guaranteed interest contracts within the retirement & savings business. In addition, the impact of higher short term interest rates in the current year, also contributed to the increase. The rise in other expenses of $227 million is primarily due to higher non deferrable volume related expenses of $61 million, which are largely associated with business growth, an increase of $39 million in corporate support expenses, and $43 million of Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals. In addition, expenses increased as a result of the impact of a $49 million benefit recorded in the second quarter of 2004, which is related to a reduction in a premium tax liability. Expenses also increased by $22 million related to an adjustment of DAC for certain long term care products in 2005. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INSTITUTIONAL Income from continuing operations increased by $445 million, or 52%, to $1,308 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $863 million for the comparable 2003 period. An improvement of $287 million, net of income taxes, in net investment gains (losses), which is partially offset by an increase of $63 million, net of income taxes, in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses), is a significant component of the increase. In addition, favorable interest rate spreads contributed $219 million, net of income taxes, to the increase compared to the prior year period, with the retirement & savings products generating $182 million, net of income taxes, of this increase. Higher investment yields, growth in the asset base and lower average crediting rates are the primary drivers of the year over year increase in interest rate spreads. These spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased to 2.06%, 1.66% and 1.88% for group life, retirement & savings and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively, from 2.04%, 1.40% and 1.51% for the group life, retirement & savings, and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively, in the comparable prior year period. Management generally expects these spreads to be in the range of 1.60% to 1.80%, 1.30% to 1.45%, and 1.30% to 1.50% for the group life, retirement & savings and the non medical health & other businesses, respectively. Earnings from interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related 75 transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees for which the timing and amount are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may fluctuate from period to period. Also contributing to the increase in income from continuing operations is a reduction in a premium tax liability of $31 million in the second quarter of 2004, net of income taxes. These increases in income from continuing operations are partially offset by less favorable underwriting results, which are estimated to have declined $40 million, net of income taxes, compared to the prior year period. Management attributes this decrease to mixed claim experience in the non medical health & other and group life business. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality and morbidity trends, as well as claim experience and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,497 million, or 10%, to $15,984 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $14,487 million for the comparable 2003 period. Growth of $1,061 million in premiums, fees, and other revenues contributed to the revenue increase. Group life insurance premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $452 million, which management primarily attributes to improved sales and favorable persistency, as well as the acquisition of the John Hancock group life insurance business in late 2003, which contributed $20 million to the increase. Non medical health & other business premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $421 million partly due to the continued growth in long term care of $149 million, of which $41 million is related to the 2004 acquisition of TIAA/ CREFs long term care business. Growth in the disability business, dental business and AD&D products contributed $260 million to the year over year increase. Retirement & savings premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $188 million, which is largely due to a growth in premiums of $172 million, resulting primarily from an increase in structured settlement sales and pension close outs. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement & savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions, and as a result, can fluctuate from year to year. In addition, an increase of $436 million in net investment income, which is primarily due to higher income from growth in the asset base, earnings on corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees contributed to the overall increase in revenues. This increase is a component of the favorable interest rate spreads discussed above. Total expenses increased by $1,311 million, or 10%, to $14,161 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $12,850 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is comprised of higher policyholder benefits and claims of $1,150 million, an increase to interest credited to policyholder account balances of $42 million and an increase in other expenses of $118 million. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $1,150 million is primarily attributable to a $453 million, $412 million, and $285 million increase in the group life, non medical health & other and retirement & savings businesses, respectively. These increases are predominantly attributable to the business growth discussed in the revenue discussion above. The increases in group life and the non medical health & other businesses include the impact of the acquisition of certain businesses from John Hancock and TIAA/CREF of $11 million and $39 million, respectively. Also included in the increase is the impact of less favorable claim experience, primarily in the non medical health & other business. Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $42 million over the prior year period primarily as a result of the impact of growth in guaranteed interest contracts within the retirement & savings business. Other operating expenses increased $118 million. The largest component of this expense growth is an increase of $92 million related to increases in direct business support expenses. In addition, non deferrable commissions and premium taxes increased by $25 million. This item is net of a $49 million reduction in a premium tax liability in the second quarter of 2004. Excluding this item, non deferrable commissions and premium taxes increased by $74 million, which is commensurate with the aforementioned revenue growth. In addition, the Company incurred infrastructure improvement costs of $34 million and expenses of $12 million related to the closing of one of the Companys disability claims centers which were partially offset by a decline of $45 million primarily relating to expenses incurred in the prior year for office closures and consolidations and an impairment of related assets. 76 INDIVIDUAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Individual segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................ $ 4,502 $ 4,204 $ 4,363 Universal life and investment type product policy fees.................................................. 2,476 1,805 1,564 Net investment income................................... 6,535 6,031 6,069 Other revenues.......................................... 477 422 380 Net investment gains (losses)........................... (50) 91 (311) Total revenues........................................ 13,940 12,553 12,065 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................ 5,420 5,107 5,048 Interest credited to policyholder account balances...... 1,775 1,618 1,734 Policyholder dividends.................................. 1,670 1,657 1,721 Other expenses.......................................... 3,272 2,879 2,783 Total expenses........................................ 12,137 11,261 11,286 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.......................................... 1,803 1,292 779 Provision for income taxes.............................. 595 428 260 Income from continuing operations....................... 1,208 864 519 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes................................................. 295 21 51 Net income.............................................. $ 1,503 $ 885 $ 570 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 INDIVIDUAL Income from continuing operations increased by $344 million, or 40%, to $1,208 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $863 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $96 million of the increase which includes $66 million, net of income taxes, of net investment losses. Included in the Travelers results is a charge for the establishment of an excess mortality reserve related to group of specific policies. In connection with MetLifes acquisition of Travelers, the Company has performed reviews of Travelers underwriting criteria in its effort to refine its estimated fair values for the purchase allocation. As a result of these reviews and actuarial analyses, and to be consistent with MetLifes existing reserving methodologies, the Company has established an excess mortality reserve on a specific group of policies. This resulted in a charge of $20 million, net of income taxes, to fourth quarter results. The Company expects to complete its reviews and refine its estimate of the excess mortality reserve by June 30, 2006. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations increased by $248 million, or 29%, for the comparable 2004 period. Included in this increase are net investment losses of $26 million, net of income taxes. Improvements in interest rate spreads contributed $117 million, net of income taxes, to the year over year increase. These spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads are influenced by several factors, including business growth, movement in interest rates, and certain investment and investment related transactions, such as corporate joint venture income and prepayment fees on bonds and commercial mortgages, the timing and amount of which are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may 77 fluctuate from period to period. Fee income from separate account products increased by $126 million, net of income taxes, primarily related to growth in the business and favorable market conditions. Favorable underwriting results in life products contributed $37 million, net of income taxes, to the increase in income from continuing operations. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. The decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $27 million, net of income taxes, lower annuity net guaranteed benefit costs of $12 million, net of income taxes, and lower DAC amortization of $6 million, net of income taxes, all contributed to the increase. These increases in income from continuing operations are partially offset by lower net investment income on blocks of business that are not driven by interest rate spreads of $19 million, net of income taxes. The increase in income from continuing operations is partially offset by higher expenses of $10 million, net of income taxes, primarily due to higher operating costs offset by the impact of revisions to certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liability estimates in the current year and certain asset write offs in the prior year. Additionally, offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations, is a revision to the estimate for policyholder dividends of $9 million, net of income taxes, which occurred in the prior year. The changes in tax rates between years accounted for a decrease in income from continuing operations of $15 million. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,528 million, or 12%, to $13,990 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $12,462 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $975 million of the increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses) increased by $553 million, or 4%, to $13,015 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $12,462 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase includes higher fee income primarily from variable annuity and universal life products of $239 million resulting from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. In addition, management attributes higher premiums of $170 million in 2005 to the active marketing of income annuity products. Although premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business continue to decline, as expected, by $94 million, an increase in premiums of $130 million from other life products more than offset the decline of the closed block. Included in the premium increase of the other life products is the impact of growth in the business and a new reinsurance strategy where more business is retained. Net investment income increased by $108 million resulting from higher joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees partially offset by a decline in bond yields. Total expenses increased by $876 million, or 8%, to $12,137 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $11,261 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $761 million of the increase. Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Travelers, total expenses increased by $115 million, or 1%, to $11,376 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $11,261 million for the comparable 2004 period. Higher expenses are primarily the result of higher policyholder benefits primarily due to the increase in future policy benefits of $207 million, commensurate with the net increase in premium on annuity and life products discussed above, partially offset by $5 million due to better mortality in life products. Also partially offsetting the increase in policyholder benefits was a reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $41 million and a benefit of $18 million associated with the hedging of guaranteed annuity benefit riders. The reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation was driven by lower net investment income, offset by higher realized gains in the closed block. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $45 million due to lower crediting rates, partially offset by the growth in policyholder account balances. In addition, total expenses increased by $13 million due to a revision in the estimate of policyholder dividends in the prior period. Other expenses increased primarily due to higher corporate incentive expenses of $60 million and higher general spending of $28 million. The current year includes revisions to prior period estimates for certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liabilities which reduce the current year expenses while the prior period includes certain asset write offs which increased 78 the prior year expenses. The impact of these two items resulted in a decrease in other expenses of $73 million. Also offsetting the increase in other expenses is lower DAC amortization of $9 million resulting from net investment losses and adjustments for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins partially offset by growth in the business. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INDIVIDUAL Income from continuing operations increased by $345 million, or 66%, to $864 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $519 million for the comparable 2003 period. Included in this increase is an improvement in net investment gains (losses) of $269 million, net of income taxes. This increase includes additional fee income of $186 million, net of income taxes, primarily related to separate account products. In addition, improvement in interest rate spreads contributed $81 million, net of income taxes, to the year over year increase. These spreads are generally the percentage point difference between the yield earned on invested assets and the interest rate the Company uses to credit on certain liabilities. Therefore, given a constant value of assets and liabilities, an increase in interest rate spreads would result in higher income to the Company. Interest rate spreads include income from certain investment transactions, including corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees, the timing and amount of which are generally unpredictable. As a result, income from these investment transactions may fluctuate from year to year. Additionally, the charge of $32 million, net of income taxes, in 2003 related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial, and a reduction in policyholder dividends of $43 million, net of income taxes, in 2004 contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. These increases in income from continuing operations are partially offset by a reduction in earnings of $101 million, net of income taxes, resulting from an increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation, associated primarily with an improvement in net investment gains (losses). Higher DAC amortization of $72 million, net of income taxes, also increased expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004. Additionally, offsetting these increases are lower net investment income on traditional life and income annuity products of $32 million, net of income taxes. The application of SOP 03 1 and the corresponding cost of hedging guaranteed annuity benefit riders reduced earnings by $30 million, net of income taxes. In addition, less favorable underwriting results in the traditional and universal life products of $22 million, net of income taxes, and higher general spending of $17 million, net of income taxes, added to this offset. These underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality experience and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $86 million, or 1%, to $12,462 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $12,376 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase includes higher fee income primarily from separate account products of $256 million resulting from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. In addition, management attributes higher premiums of $37 million in 2004 to the active marketing of income annuity products. The increased volume of sales in 2004 also resulted in higher broker/dealer and other subsidiaries revenues of $27 million. Partially offsetting the increases in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 are lower premiums of $196 million which are primarily related to the Companys closed block of business which decreased by $209 million and continues to run off at managements expected range of 3% to 6% per year. In addition, lower net investment income of $38 million resulting from lower investment yields offset increases in total revenues. Total expenses decreased by $25 million, or less than 1%, to $11,261 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $11,286 million for the comparable 2003 period. Lower expenses are primarily the result of a $193 million decrease in the closed block policyholder benefits, commensurate with the net decrease in premiums and a $116 million decline in interest credited to policyholder account balances due to lower crediting rates. Also included in the decrease in expenses are lower policyholder dividends of $64 million primarily resulting from reductions in the dividend scale in late 2003 and a charge in 2003 related to certain improperly deferred expenses at New England Financial of $48 million. Partially offsetting these decreases in 79 expenses is a $151 million increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation based on positive performance of the closed block and higher DAC amortization of $108 million. The increase in DAC amortization is a result of accelerated amortization resulting from improvement in net investment gains (losses) and the update of managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. Additionally, offsetting the decrease to expenses is a $46 million increase from the application of SOP 03 1 and the corresponding cost of hedging guaranteed annuity benefit riders, a $35 million increase in future policy benefits commensurate with the increase in income annuity premiums, and a $10 million increase in policyholder benefits primarily due to higher amortization of deferred sales inducements due to growth in expenses. Further, the decrease in expenses was offset by higher general spending of $26 million and a $10 million increase in broker/dealer and other subsidiary related expenses. Additionally, unfavorable underwriting results in the traditional and universal life products of $9 million contributed to the increase. AUTO & HOME The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Auto & Home segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums................................................... $2,911 $2,948 $2,908 Net investment income...................................... 181 171 158 Other revenues............................................. 33 35 33 Net investment gains (losses).............................. (12) (9) (15) Total revenues........................................... 3,113 3,145 3,084 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims........................... 1,994 2,079 2,139 Policyholder dividends..................................... 3 2 2 Other expenses............................................. 828 795 756 Total expenses........................................... 2,825 2,876 2,897 Income before provision for income taxes................... 288 269 187 Provision for income taxes................................. 64 61 30 Net income................................................. $ 224 $ 208 $ 157 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AUTO & HOME Net income increased by $16 million, or 8%, to $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $208 million for the comparable 2004 period. The increase is primarily the result of improvements in the development of prior years claims of $40 million, net of income taxes, and an improvement in the non catastrophe combined ratio resulting in $16 million, net of income taxes, primarily due to lower automobile and homeowner claim frequencies. Also contributing to this increase in net income is an improvement in losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan of $12 million, net of income taxes, an increase in net investment income of $6 million, net of income taxes, and an increase in earned premium of $4 million, net of income taxes, as discussed below. Offsetting these improved results, is an increase in catastrophes, including Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma of $63 million, net of income taxes. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), decreased by $29 million, or 1%, to $3,125 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,154 million for the comparable 2004 period. This decrease is primarily attributable to reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums due to Hurricane Katrina of $43 million. This decrease was partially offset by higher net investment income of $10 million, 80 primarily due to a change in the allocation of economic capital, offset by a lower yield on a slightly higher invested asset base and an increase in earned premium of $6 million primarily due to rate increases, higher inflation guard endorsements and higher insurance to value programs, all in the homeowners business. Total expenses decreased by $51 million, or 2%, to $2,825 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,876 million for the comparable 2004 period. This decrease is predominantly due to improved non catastrophe losses of $32 million. This is primarily due to lower non catastrophe automobile and homeowner claim frequencies of $18 million and a smaller exposure base of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the comparable 2004 period. Improvement in the development of losses reported in prior years contributed $61 million. Unallocated claim expenses, excluding the expenses associated with Hurricane Katrina, decreased by $28 million mainly due to a smaller increase in the year over year change in unallocated claim expense liability due to a smaller increase in the related loss reserve and related unallocated claim expense reserve rate. Assumed losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan decreased by $18 million primarily due to improved claim frequency and severity trends. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in catastrophe losses, including Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, of $54 million and an increase in other expenses of $33 million primarily as a result of higher information technology, advertising and compensation costs. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes and before the reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments due to Hurricane Katrina, is 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus 90.4% for the comparable 2004 period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AUTO & HOME Net income increased by $51 million, or 32%, to $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $157 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily attributable to an improved non catastrophe combined ratio, which resulted in a benefit of $52 million, net of income taxes, improved claim development related to prior accident years of $61 million, net of income taxes, and an increase in net investment income of $13 million, net of income taxes. Partially offsetting these favorable variances are increased catastrophe losses of $73 million, net of income taxes. This increase resulted from the four hurricanes that struck the Southeastern United States in August and September of 2004. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $55 million, or 2%, to $3,154 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,099 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is primarily attributable to a $40 million increase in premiums, which is largely the result of an increase in the average earned premium resulting from continued rate increases. In addition, a $13 million increase in net investment income is largely attributable to growth in the underlying asset base, an increase in the investment yield and higher income related to tax advantaged municipal bonds. Total expenses decreased by $21 million, or 1%, to $2,876 for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,897 million for the comparable 2003 period. This decrease is the result of an improvement in policyholder benefits and claims due to a favorable change of $94 million in prior year claim development, as well as a decrease in expenses of $80 million resulting from an improved non catastrophe combined ratio primarily attributable to lower automobile and homeowners claim frequencies. These favorable changes in expenses are partially offset by an increase in losses from catastrophes of $112 million and a $39 million increase in expenses primarily due to inflation and employee and other related labor costs. The combined ratio excluding catastrophes declined to 90.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004 from 97.1% for the comparable 2003 period. 81 INTERNATIONAL The following table presents consolidated financial information for the International segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums.................................................... $2,186 $1,690 $1,631 Universal life and investment type product policy fees...... 579 349 271 Net investment income....................................... 844 585 500 Other revenues.............................................. 20 23 80 Net investment gains (losses)............................... 5 23 8 Total revenues............................................ 3,634 2,670 2,490 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims............................ 2,128 1,611 1,456 Interest credited to policyholder account balances.......... 278 151 143 Policyholder dividends...................................... 5 6 9 Other expenses.............................................. 1,000 614 652 Total expenses............................................ 3,411 2,382 2,260 Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes.............................................. 223 288 230 Provision (benefit) for income taxes........................ 36 86 17 Income from continuing operations........................... 187 202 213 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes..................................................... 5 (9) (5) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes....................................... 192 193 208 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes..................................................... (30) Net income.................................................. $ 192 $ 163 $ 208 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 INTERNATIONAL Income from continuing operations decreased by $15 million, or 7%, to $187 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $202 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for a loss from continuing operations of $24 million including net investment losses of $14 million, net of income taxes. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, income from continuing operations increased by $9 million, or 4%, over the prior year. South Koreas income from continuing operations increased by $26 million, net of income taxes, primarily due to growth in business, specifically higher sales of its variable universal life product and a larger in force business. Chiles income from continuing operations increased by $8 million primarily due to growth in business, specifically in the new bank distribution channel, as well as an increase in net investment income primarily due to higher inflation rates. Mexicos income from continuing operations increased by $8 million, primarily due to tax benefits of $27 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, higher net investment earnings, an adjustment to the amortization of DAC for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins and several other one time revenue items. These increases in Mexico were substantially offset by an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment losses on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, as well as an increase in expenses for start up costs for the new Mexican Pension Business ("AFORE") and contingency liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases in income from continuing operations was a decrease in Canada of $13 million, net of income taxes, primarily due to a realignment of economic capital, offset by the 82 strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year and higher home office and infrastructure expenditures in support of the segment growth of $16 million, net of income taxes. The remainder of the variance can be attributed to various other countries. Additionally, $4 million of the increase in income from continuing operations is due to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $982 million, or 37%, to $3,629 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,647 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $377 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total revenues, excluding net investment gains, increased by $605 million, or 23%, over the comparable 2004 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $452 million, or 22%, to $2,514 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,062 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is primarily the result of continued business growth through increased sales and renewal business within South Korea, Brazil and Taiwan of $216 million, $48 million and $31 million, respectively. Mexicos premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $78 million primarily due to increases in the institutional and agency business channels, as well as several one time other revenue items of $19 million. Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $64 million mainly due to its new bank distribution channel. Net investment income increased by $153 million, or 26%, to $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $585 million for the comparable 2004 period. Mexicos net investment income increased by $89 million due principally to increases in interest rates and also as a result of an increase in invested assets. Chiles net investment income increased by $58 million primarily due to higher inflation rates and an increase in invested assets. Investment valuations and returns on invested assets in Chile are linked to the inflation rates. South Korea and Taiwans net investment income increased by $20 million and $11 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in their invested assets. These increases in net investment income were partially offset by a decrease of $21 million due to the realignment of economic capital. The remainder of the increases in total revenues, excluding net investment gains can be attributed to business growth and investment income in other countries. Additionally, $221 million of the increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Total expenses increased by $1,029 million, or 43%, to $3,411 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,382 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $404 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total expenses increased by $625 million, or 26%, over the comparable 2004 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $451 million, or 26%, to $2,219 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $1,768 million for the comparable 2004 period. Policyholder benefits and claims and dividends in Mexico increased by $177 million primarily due to an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment gains (losses) on the invested assets supporting those liabilities of $110 million, as well as an increase in interest credited to policyholder accounts of $65 million in line with the net investment income increase in Mexico. South Korea, Taiwan and Brazils policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder accounts increased by $122 million, $41 million and $27 million, respectively, commensurate with the business growth discussed above. Chiles policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder accounts increased by $86 million due to the business growth primarily in the bank distribution channel business, as well as to an increase in the liabilities for annuity benefits, which, like net investment income on related assets, are linked to the inflation rate. Hong Kongs policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends increased by $3 million due to higher claims and the associated increase in liabilities in 2005. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $10 million in Canadas policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances primarily due to the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year. Other expenses increased by $174 million, or 28%, to $788 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $614 million for the comparable 2004 period. South Koreas other expenses increased by $73 million primarily due to higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs driven by the rapid growth in the business, a decrease in a payroll tax liability in the prior year resulting from the resolution of the related tax matter, an accrual for an early retirement program in 2005, as well as additional overhead expenses in line with the 83 growth in business. Mexicos other expenses increased by $17 million primarily due to incurred start up costs during the current year associated with the AFORE operations, an increase in liabilities related to potential employment matters in 2005, an increase in consulting services and a decrease in the prior year of severance accruals. Partially offsetting these increases in Mexico is a decrease in the amortization of DAC due to an adjustment for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. Brazils other expenses increased by $28 million, primarily due to growth in business discussed above including an increase in non deferrable sales expenses. Chiles other expenses increased by $24 million due primarily to increases in non deferrable expenses for the bank distribution channel of business in 2005. Other expenses at home office also increased by $26 million primarily due to increased consultant fees for growth initiative projects, an increase in compensation resulting from increased headcount, higher incentive compensation, as well as higher costs for legal, marketing and other corporate support expenses. The remainder of the increase in total expenses can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Additionally, a component of the growth in total expenses is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $202 million. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 INTERNATIONAL Income from continuing operations decreased by $11 million, or 5%, to $202 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $213 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year includes a $62 million benefit, net of income taxes, from the merger of the Mexican operations and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in methodology in determining the liability for future policy benefits, a $12 million tax benefit in Chile related to the merger of two subsidiaries and an $8 million benefit, net of income taxes, related to reinsurance treaties. These increases are partially offset by a $19 million charge, net of income taxes, in Taiwan related to an increased loss recognition liability due to low interest rates relative to product guarantees. The prior year also includes a $4 million benefit, net of income taxes, related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. Excluding these items, income from continuing operations increased by $56 million, or 38%. A significant component of this increase is attributable to the application of SOP 03 1 in 2004, which resulted in a $21 million decrease, net of income taxes, in policyholder liabilities in Mexico. The primary driver of the 2004 impact is a decline in the fair value of the underlying assets associated with these contracts. Additionally, a $10 million, net of income taxes, increase in net investment gains is primarily due to the gain from the sale of the Spanish operations. In addition, 2004 includes $8 million of certain tax related benefits in South Korea. The remainder of the increase can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Additionally, $8 million of the decrease in income from continuing operations is due to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $165 million, or 7%, to $2,647 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,482 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year period includes $230 million of revenues related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. Excluding the sale of these operations, revenues increased by $395 million, or 18%. The Companys Mexican and Chilean operations increased revenues by $144 million and $58 million, respectively, primarily due to growth in the business, as well as improved investment earnings. The Companys operations in South Korea and Taiwan also have increased revenues by $121 million and $34 million, respectively, primarily due to increased new sales and renewal business. The remainder of the increase can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed $14 million to the year over year increase in total revenues. Total expenses increased by $122 million, or 5%, to $2,382 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $2,260 million for the comparable 2003 period. The prior year includes expenses of $223 million related to the Spanish operations, which were sold in 2003. The prior year also includes a $79 million benefit related to a reduction in the Mexican operations policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in methodology in determining the liability for future policy benefits, partially offset by a related increase of $45 million in amortization of VOBA. Additionally, Taiwans 2003 expenses include a $30 million pre tax charge due to an increased loss recognition reserve as a result of low interest rates relative to product guarantees. Excluding these items, expenses increased $341 million, or 17%, over the prior year. Expenses grew by $71 million, $98 million, $58 million and $36 million for the operations in Mexico, South Korea, Chile and Taiwan, 84 respectively, which is commensurate with the revenue growth discussed above. In addition, 2004 includes a $33 million decrease in Mexicos policyholder liabilities resulting from the application of SOP 03 1. Canadas expenses increased by $13 million due primarily to the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the fourth quarter of 2004. The remainder of the increase in total expenses is primarily related to the ongoing investment in infrastructure. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed $18 million to the year over year increase in total expenses. REINSURANCE The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums.................................................... $3,869 $3,348 $2,648 Universal life and investment type product policy fees...... Net investment income....................................... 606 538 431 Other revenues.............................................. 58 56 47 Net investment gains (losses)............................... 22 59 62 Total revenues............................................ 4,555 4,001 3,188 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims............................ 3,206 2,694 2,109 Interest credited to policyholder account balances.......... 220 212 184 Policyholder dividends...................................... 1 Other expenses.............................................. 991 957 764 Total expenses............................................ 4,417 3,864 3,057 Income before provision for income taxes.................... 138 137 131 Provision for income taxes.................................. 46 46 45 Net income.................................................. $ 92 $ 91 $ 86 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 REINSURANCE Net income increased by $1 million, or 1%, to $92 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $91 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is attributable to a 14% increase in revenues, primarily due to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations, as well as an increase in net investment income due to growth in RGAs operations and invested asset base. The increase in net income is partially offset by a reduction in net investment gains of $12 million, net of income taxes and minority interest, and a higher loss ratio in the current year, primarily due to unfavorable mortality experience as a result of high claim levels in the U.S. and the U.K. during the first six months of the year. Reserve strengthening in RGAs Argentine pension business in 2005 reduced net income by $11 million, net of income taxes and minority interest. The comparable 2004 period included a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business, reducing net income by $8 million, net of income taxes and minority interest. The Argentine pension business and the accident and health business are currently in run off. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $591 million, or 15%, to $4,533 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,942 million for the comparable 2004 period primarily due to a $521 million, or 16%, increase in premiums and a $68 million, or 13%, increase in net investment income. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing 85 blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. The growth in net investment income is the result of the growth in RGAs operations and invested asset base. Additionally, a component of the total revenue increase is attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements contributing an estimated $49 million. Total expenses increased by $553 million, or 14%, to $4,417 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,864 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is commensurate with growth in revenues and is primarily attributable to an increase of $520 million in policyholder benefits and claims and interest credited to policyholder account balances, primarily associated with RGAs growth in insurance in force of approximately $270 billion, the aforementioned unfavorable mortality experience in the U.S. and U.K. during the first six months of the year, and strengthening of reserves of $33 million for the Argentine pension business. The comparable 2004 period included a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business of $24 million and $18 million in policy benefits and claims as a result of the Indian Ocean tsunami on December 26, 2004 and claims development associated with the reinsurance of the Argentine pension business. Other expenses increased by $34 million, or 4%, primarily due to an increase in the amortization of DAC. Changes in DAC, included in other expenses, can vary from period to period primarily due to changes in the mixture of the business being reinsured. Additionally, $46 million of the total expense increase is attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 REINSURANCE Net income increased by $5 million, or 6%, to $91 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $86 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is attributable to a 26% increase in revenues, primarily due to strong premium growth across all of RGAs geographical segments, which includes the effect of the Allianz Life transaction. The growth in income from continuing operations is partially offset by higher minority interest expense as the Companys ownership in RGA decreased from 59% to 52% in the comparable periods and a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business, which is currently in run off, of $8 million for the third quarter of 2004, net of income taxes and minority interest. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $816 million, or 26%, to $3,942 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,126 million for the comparable 2003 period due primarily to a $700 million increase in premiums. The premium increase during the year ended December 31, 2004 is partially the result of RGAs coinsurance agreement with Allianz Life under which RGA assumed 100% of Allianz Lifes United States traditional life reinsurance business. This transaction closed during 2003, with six months of reinsurance activity recorded in 2003, as compared to twelve months in 2004. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the United States and certain international operations also contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions, such as the Allianz Life transaction, and reporting practices of ceding companies, and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Net investment income also contributed to revenue growth, increasing $107 million, or 25%, to $538 million in 2004 from $431 million in 2003. The growth in net investment income is the result of the growth in RGAs operations and invested asset base, as well as the conversion of a large reinsurance treaty from a funds withheld to coinsurance basis which resulted in an increase of $12 million in net investment income. Additionally, a component of the total revenue increase is attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements contributing an estimated $99 million. Total expenses increased by $807 million, or 26%, to $3,864 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $3,057 million for the comparable 2003 period. This increase is commensurate with the growth in revenues and is primarily attributable to an increase of $613 million in policyholder benefits and claims and interest credited to policyholder account balances, primarily associated with RGAs growth in insurance in force of approximately $200 billion, a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business of $24 million, and the inclusion of only six months of results from the Allianz Life transaction in the prior year. The growth in interest credited is associated with an increase in the account balances of market value adjusted annuity products and is generally offset by corresponding change in investment income. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2004, RGA recorded approximately $18 million in policy benefits and claims as a result of 86 the Indian Ocean tsunami on December 26, 2004 and claims development associated with its reinsurance of Argentine pension business. Other expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $106 million in allowances and related expenses on assumed reinsurance associated with RGAs growth in premiums and insurance in force and $15 million in additional amortization of DAC from the conversion of a large reinsurance treaty from a funds withheld to coinsurance basis. The balance of the growth in other expenses is primarily due to additional costs in the U.S. associated with the Allianz Life transaction, start up costs in various international markets, and the aforementioned increase in minority interest expense from $114 million in 2003 to $161 million in 2004. Additionally, $95 million of the total expense increase is attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements. CORPORATE & OTHER The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Corporate & Other for the years indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) REVENUES Premiums.................................................... $ 5 $ (27) $ (38) Universal life and investment type product policy fees...... 1 2 Net investment income....................................... 782 457 168 Other revenues.............................................. 30 8 41 Net investment gains (losses)............................... (48) (152) (6) Total revenues............................................ 770 288 165 EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims............................ (18) (2) 36 Other expenses.............................................. 947 596 359 Total expenses............................................ 929 594 395 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax benefit................................................... (159) (306) (230) Income tax benefit.......................................... (187) (270) (221) Income from continuing operations........................... 28 (36) (9) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes.... 1,113 176 319 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes....................................... 1,141 140 310 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income taxes..................................................... 4 Net income.................................................. 1,141 144 310 Preferred stock dividends................................... 63 Charge for conversion of company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of a subsidiary trust............... 21 Net income available to common shareholders................. $1,078 $ 144 $ 289 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 CORPORATE & OTHER Income from continuing operations increased by $64 million, or 178%, to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from a loss of $36 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, accounted for $88 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, income from continuing operations decreased by $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 period includes 87 a $31 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2004, a $30 million benefit, net of income taxes, associated with the reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999, and an $18 million benefit, net of income taxes, associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to the Companys demutualization in 2000. The 2004 period includes a $105 million benefit associated with the resolution of issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also included in the 2004 period is an expense related to a $32 million, net of income taxes, contribution to the MetLife Foundation and a $9 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2003. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations decreased by $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher interest expense on debt (principally associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers acquisition), integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers, interest credited to bank holder deposits and legal related liabilities of $119 million, $76 million, $44 million and $4 million, respectively, all of which are net of income taxes. This is partially offset by an increase in net investment income of $107 million, net of income taxes, higher net investment gains of $66 million, net of income taxes, and a decrease in corporate support expenses of $10 million, net of income taxes. The remainder of the difference is primarily driven by the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $378 million, or 86%, to $818 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $440 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $152 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, the increase of $226 million is primarily attributable to increases in income on fixed maturities as a result of higher yields from lengthening the duration and a higher asset base, as well as increased income from corporate joint ventures and mortgage loans on real estate. Also included as a component of total revenues are intersegment eliminations which are offset within total expenses. Total expenses increased by $335 million, or 56%, to $929 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $594 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, accounted for $15 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, total expenses increased by $320 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 period includes a $47 million benefit associated with a reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999, a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to the Companys demutualization in 2000. The 2004 period includes a $50 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation, partially offset by a $22 million reduction of a liability associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Excluding the impact of these items, total expenses increased by $423 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. This increase is attributable to higher interest expense of $187 million as a result of the issuance of senior notes in 2004 and 2005, which includes $129 million of expenses from the financing of the acquisition of Travelers. Integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers were $120 million. As a result of growth in the business, interest credited to bank holder deposits increased by $70 million at MetLife Bank. In addition, legal related liabilities increased by $5 million. These increases were offset by a reduction in corporate support expenses of $16 million. The remainder of the increase is attributable to intersegment eliminations. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 CORPORATE & OTHER Income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $27 million, or 300%, to ($36) million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from ($9) million for the comparable 2003 period. The 2004 period includes a $105 million benefit associated with the resolution of issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also included in 2004 is an expense related to a $32 million contribution, net of income taxes, to the MetLife Foundation and a $9 million 88 benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2003. The year ended December 31, 2003 includes a $92 million benefit, net of income taxes, from the reduction of a previously established liability related to the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement, as well as a $36 million benefit from a revision of the estimate of income taxes for 2002. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $19 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 from the comparable 2003 period. The increase in earnings in 2004 over the prior year period is primarily attributable to an increase in net investment income of $184 million and a decrease in policyholder benefits and claims of $24 million, both of which are net of income taxes. This increase is partially offset by an increase in net investment losses of $93 million and an increase in interest on bank holder deposits of $14 million, a charge related to unoccupied space of $10 million, as well as expenses associated with the piloting of a new product of $7 million, all net of income taxes. In addition, the tax benefit increased by $41 million as a result of a change in the Companys allocation of tax expense among segments. Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $269 million, or 157%, to $440 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $171 million for the comparable 2003 period. The increase in revenue is primarily attributable to increases in income on fixed maturity securities, corporate joint venture income, mortgage loans on real estate and equity securities due to increased invested assets and higher yields. Also included as a component of total revenues are intersegment eliminations which are offset within total expenses. Total expenses increased by $199 million, or 50%, to $594 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $395 million for the comparable 2003 period. The year ended December 31, 2004 includes a $50 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation, partially offset by a $22 million reduction of interest expense associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. The year ended December 31, 2003 includes a $144 million benefit from a reduction of a previously established liability associated with the Companys race conscious underwriting settlement. Excluding these items, total expenses increased by $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase is attributable to higher interest expense of $61 million as a result of the issuance of senior notes at the end of 2003 and during 2004, as well as higher interest credited to bank holder deposits of $22 million as a result of growth in MetLife Banks business. This increase is partially offset by a decrease of $54 million from lower interest expense on surplus notes, as well as lower expenses from policyholder benefits and claims of $38 million, a charge related to unoccupied space of $15 million, as well as expenses associated with the piloting of a new product of $11 million. The remainder of the increase is attributable to intersegment eliminations. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST I In connection with MetLife, Inc.s initial public offering in April 2000, the Holding Company and MetLife Capital Trust I, a wholly owned trust, (the "Trust") issued equity security units (the "units"). Each unit originally consisted of (i) a contract to purchase, for $50, shares of the Holding Companys common stock (the "purchase contracts") on May 15, 2003; and (ii) a capital security of the Trust, with a stated liquidation amount of $50. In accordance with the terms of the units, the Trust was dissolved on February 5, 2003, and $1,006 million aggregate principal amount of 8.00% debentures of the Holding Company (the "MetLife debentures"), the sole assets of the Trust, were distributed to the owners of the Trusts capital securities in exchange for their capital securities. The MetLife debentures were remarketed on behalf of the debenture owners on February 12, 2003 and the interest rate on the MetLife debentures was reset as of February 15, 2003 to 3.911% per annum. As a result of the remarketing, the debenture owners received $21 million ($0.03 per diluted common share) in excess of the carrying value of the capital securities. This excess was recorded by the Company as a charge to additional paid in capital and, for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, is subtracted from net income to arrive at net income available to common shareholders. On May 15, 2003, the purchase contracts associated with the units were settled. In exchange for $1,006 million, the Company issued 2.97 shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock per purchase contract, or 89 59.8 million shares of treasury stock. The excess of the Companys cost of the treasury stock ($1,662 million) over the contract price of the stock issued to the purchase contract holders ($1,006 million) was $656 million, which was recorded as a direct reduction to retained earnings. Due to the dissolution of the Trust in 2003, there was no interest expense on capital securities for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Interest expense on the capital securities is included in other expenses and was $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES THE COMPANY CAPITAL Risk based capital ("RBC") requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items and takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. These rules apply to each of the Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2005, each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries total adjusted capital was in excess of the RBC levels required by their respective states of domicile. The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ("Codification") in 2001 to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. The New York State Department of Insurance (the "Department") has adopted Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in New York. Modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of the Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries. ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Business Finance Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific Asset/Liability Management Committees ("ALM Committees"). The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. The Company establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. In executing these asset/liability matching strategies, management regularly reevaluates the estimates used in determining the approximate amounts and timing of payments to or on behalf of policyholders for insurance liabilities. Many of these estimates are inherently subjective and could impact the Companys ability to achieve its asset/liability management goals and objectives. LIQUIDITY Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Companys liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, excluding securities 90 lending) was $6.7 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling 12 month forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its cash needs under various scenarios that include the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including guaranteed interest contracts ("GICs"), and certain deposit funds liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements beyond normal liquidity, the Company has multiple liquidity alternatives available based on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flow from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. The Companys ability to sell investment assets could be limited by accounting rules including rules relating to the intent and ability to hold impaired securities until the market value of those securities recovers. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a statutory legal entity are available to fund any obligation of the general account within that legal entity. LIQUIDITY SOURCES Cash Flow from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable fixed maturity and equity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending and dollar roll activities. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had $179 billion and $136 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversification of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had $1.4 billion in short term debt outstanding, and $9.9 billion and $7.4 billion in long term debt outstanding, respectively. Debt Issuances. On June 23, 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States public market $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). On June 29, 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On December 8, 2005, RGA issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $400 million. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 6.75% until December 15, 2015. Subsequent to 91 December 15, 2015, interest on these debentures will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 266.5 basis points, payable quarterly until maturity in 2065. The Company repaid a $250 million, 7% surplus note which matured on November 1, 2005 and repaid a $1,006 million, 3.911% senior note which matured on May 15, 2005. MetLife Bank has entered into several repurchase agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the "FHLB of NY") whereby MetLife Bank has issued such repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Banks residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks obligations under the repurchase agreements. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. During 2005, the Company increased its liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY by $750 million. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Companys total liability was $855 million and $105 million, respectively, which is included in long term debt. MetLife Funding, Inc. ("MetLife Funding"), a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, Metropolitan Life has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $11.2 million and $10.9 million, respectively. MetLife Funding raises cash from various funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, to the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of Metropolitan Life and other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of $456 million and $1,448 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. Credit Facilities. The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $3.85 billion as of December 31, 2005. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and $3.0 billion of the facilities also serve as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper programs. The following table provides details on these facilities as of December 31, 2005: LETTER OF CREDIT UNUSED BORROWER(S) EXPIRATION CAPACITY ISSUANCES DRAWDOWNS COMMITMENTS (IN MILLIONS) MetLife, Inc., MetLife Funding, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company......... April 2009 $1,500 $374 $ $1,126 MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. ...... April 2010 1,500 1,500 MetLife Bank, N.A............................. July 2006 200 200 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated.... January 2006 26 26 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated.... May 2007 26 26 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated.... September 2010 600 320 50 230 Total......................................... $3,852 $694 $102 $3,056 Letters of Credit. On July 1, 2005, in connection with the closing of the acquisition of Travelers, the $2.0 billion amended and restated five year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement (the "L/C Agreement") entered into by The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company ("TLARC") and various institutional lenders on April 25, 2005 became effective. Under the L/C Agreement, the Holding Company agreed to unconditionally guarantee reimbursement obligations of TLARC with respect to reinsurance letters of credit issued pursuant to the L/C Agreement and replaced Citigroup Insurance Holding Company as guarantor upon closing of the Travelers acquisition. The L/C Agreement expires five years after the closing of the acquisition. Also during 2005, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. ("Exeter") entered into three ten year letter of credit and reimbursement agreements totaling $800 million with an institutional lender, 92 and the Holding Company and Exeter entered into a $500 million ten year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement with another institutional lender. The following table provides details on the capacity and outstanding balances of such committed facilities as of December 31, 2005: LETTER OF CREDIT UNUSED ACCOUNT PARTY EXPIRATION CAPACITY ISSUANCES COMMITMENTS (IN MILLIONS) The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company................................. July 2010 $2,000 $1,930 $ 70 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... March 2015 225 225 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... June 2015 250 250 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... September 2015 325 325 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. and MetLife, Inc. .......................... December 2015 500 280 220 Total..................................... $3,300 $2,685 $615 Note: The Holding Company is a guarantor under the first four agreements and a party to the fifth agreement above. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had outstanding $3.6 billion and $961 million, respectively, in letters of credit from various banks, of which $3.4 billion and $470 million, respectively, were part of committed facilities. The letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004 all automatically renew for one year periods except for $755 million in the current period which expires in ten years. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Companys actual future cash funding requirements. LIQUIDITY USES Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income taxes, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending and dollar roll activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. 93 The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005: LESS THAN THREE TO MORE THAN CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TOTAL THREE YEARS FIVE YEARS FIVE YEARS (IN MILLIONS) Other long term liabilities(1)(2)................ $106,522 $19,089 $ 8,026 $79,407 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions......................... 34,515 34,515 Long term debt(3)................................ 19,506 2,836 1,376 15,294 Mortgage commitments............................. 2,974 2,030 296 648 Partnership investments(4)....................... 2,684 2,684 Junior subordinated debt securities underlying common equity units(5)......................... 2,433 1,359 1,074 Operating leases................................. 1,338 579 235 524 Shares subject to mandatory redemption(3)........ 350 350 Capital leases................................... 73 38 9 26 Contracts to purchase real estate................ 36 36 Total............................................ $170,431 $63,166 $11,016 $96,249 (1) Other long term liabilities include various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including guaranteed interest contracts, structured settlements, pension closeouts, certain annuity policies and certain indemnities. (2) Other long term liabilities include benefit and claim liabilities for which the Company believes the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. Such amounts generally relate to (i) policies or contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event, such as death; and (ii) life insurance and property and casualty incurred and reported claims. Liabilities for future policy benefits of $82.4 billion and policyholder account balances of $113.4 billion, both at December 31, 2005, have been excluded from this table. Amounts excluded from the table are generally comprised of policies or contracts where (i) the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments in the future until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, or (ii) the occurrence of a payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside the control of the Company. The determination of these liability amounts and the timing of payment are not reasonably fixed and determinable since the insurable event or payment triggering event has not yet occurred. Such excluded liabilities primarily represent future policy benefits of approximately $63.4 billion relating to traditional life, health and disability insurance products and policyholder account balances of approximately $41.7 billion relating to deferred annuities, $27.3 billion for group and universal life products and approximately $27.0 billion for funding agreements without fixed maturity dates. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation and the timing of payments. See " The Company Asset/Liability Management." Amounts included in other long term liabilities reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to interest. The amount shown in the More than Five Years column represents the sum of cash flows, also adjusted for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement and other appropriate factors and undiscounted with respect to interest, extending for more than 100 years from the present date. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $104.4 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $51.4 billion included in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005. The liability amount in the consolidated financial statements reflects the discounting for interest, as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above. (3) Amounts differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheets. The amounts above do not include any fair value adjustments, related premiums and discounts or capital leases which are presented separately. Amounts include interest to be paid on fixed rate debt only. 94 (4) The Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested in these partnerships any time over the next five years, but are presented in the current period, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted. (5) Amounts include interest paid on junior subordinated debt. As of December 31, 2005, and relative to its liquidity program, the Company had no material (individually or in the aggregate) purchase obligations or material (individually or in the aggregate) unfunded pension or other postretirement benefit obligations due within one year. Support Agreements. Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with New England Life Insurance Company ("NELICO") at the time Metropolitan Life merged with New England Mutual Life Insurance Company. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause NELICO to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than the company action level RBC (or not less than 125% of the company action level RBC, if NELICO has a negative trend), as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2005, the capital and surplus of NELICO was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recently referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2005. In connection with the Companys acquisition of the parent of General American Life Insurance Company ("General American"), Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with General American. Under the agreement, as subsequently amended, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause General American to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 250% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2005, the capital and surplus of General American was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2005. Metropolitan Life has also entered into arrangements for the benefit of some of its other subsidiaries and affiliates to assist such subsidiaries and affiliates in meeting various jurisdictions regulatory requirements regarding capital and surplus and security deposits. In addition, Metropolitan Life has entered into a support arrangement with respect to a subsidiary under which Metropolitan Life may become responsible, in the event that the subsidiary becomes the subject of insolvency proceedings, for the payment of certain reinsurance recoverables due from the subsidiary to one or more of its cedents in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable reinsurance agreements. General American has agreed to guarantee the contractual obligations of its subsidiary, Paragon Life Insurance Company, and certain contractual obligations of its former subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company ("MetLife Investors"), First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. In addition, General American has entered into a contingent reinsurance agreement with MetLife Investors. Under this agreement, in the event that MetLife Investors statutory capital and surplus is less than $10 million or total adjusted capital falls below 180% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, General American would assume as assumption reinsurance, subject to regulatory approvals and required consents, all of MetLife Investors life insurance policies and annuity contract liabilities. At December 31, 2005, the capital and surplus of MetLife Investors was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2005. In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. ("MIH"), a subsidiary of the Holding Company, committed to the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority that it will provide or procure the provision of additional capital to MetLife General Insurance Limited ("MGIL"), an Australian subsidiary of MIH, to the extent necessary to enable MGIL to meet insurance capital adequacy and solvency requirements. In addition, MetLife International Insurance, Ltd. ("MIIL"), a Bermuda insurance company, was acquired as part of the Travelers transaction. In connection with the assumption of a 95 block of business by MIIL from a company in liquidation in 1995, Citicorp Life Insurance Company ("CLIC"), an affiliate of MIIL and a subsidiary of the Holding Company, agreed with MIIL and the liquidator to make capital contributions to MIIL to ensure that, for so long as any policies in such block remain outstanding, MIIL remains solvent and able to honor the liabilities under such policies. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Companys liquidity resources. Litigation. Various litigation, including purported or certified class actions, and various claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys consolidated financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Other. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common stock, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. The nature of the Companys diverse product portfolio and customer base lessens the likelihood that normal operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity. Consolidated cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $8,005 million and $6,510 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $1,495 million increase in operating cash flows in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period is primarily attributable to the acquisition of Travelers, growth in disability, dental, long term care business, group life and retirement & savings, as well as continued growth in the annuity business. Net cash provided by operating activities was $6,510 million and $6,127 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $383 million increase in operating cash flows in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily attributable to continued growth in the group life, long term care, dental and disability businesses, as well as an increase in retirement & savings structured settlements due to a large multi contract sale in 2004. Also, the late 2003 acquisition of John Hancocks group TIAA/CREFs long term care business contributed to growth in the 2004 period. Net cash used in investing activities was $22,610 million and $14,417 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $8,193 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period is primarily due to the acquisition of Travelers and CitiStreet Associates, the increase in net purchases of fixed maturities and an increase in the origination of mortgage and consumer loans, primarily in commercial loans, as compared to the 2004 period. This was partially offset by an increase in repayments of mortgage and consumer loans, an increase in sales of equity real estate and a 96 decrease in the cash used for short term investments. In addition, the 2005 period includes proceeds associated with the sale of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia. Net cash used in investing activities was $14,417 million and $26,878 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $12,461 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily due to less cash provided by financing activities, partially offset by an increase in cash generated from operations. This decrease in available cash resulted in reduced investments in fixed maturities in 2004 as compared to 2003. These items are partially offset by an increase in mortgage and other loan origination as the Company continues to take advantage of favorable market conditions in this sector, as well as an increase in cash used for equity securities and short term investments for the comparable periods. Net cash provided by financing activities was $14,517 million and $8,280 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $6,237 million increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period is primarily attributable to the Holding Companys funding of the acquisition of Travelers through the issuance of long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities and preferred shares. In addition, there was an increase in the amount of securities lending cash collateral invested in connection with the program. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in net cash provided by policyholder account balances, the repayment of previously issued long term debt, the payment of common stock dividends, the payment of dividends on the preferred shares, the payment of debt and equity issuance costs, and the repurchase of its common stock by RGA. Net cash provided by financing activities was $8,280 million and $22,161 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $13,881 million decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2004 over the comparable 2003 period is primarily due to a decrease in securities lending cash collateral invested in connection with the program. In addition, there were repayments of short term debt associated with dollar roll activity, and an increase in cash used in the Companys stock repurchase program. Net cash provided by policyholder account balances decreased from the comparable 2003 period mainly as a result of a decrease in GICs sold in 2004 as compared to 2003, partially offset by an increase in MetLife Banks customer deposits, particularly in the personal and business savings accounts. The 2003 period included payments of $1,006 million received on the settlement of common stock purchase contracts (see " Results of Operations MetLife Capital Trust I") and $317 million net cash proceeds associated with RGAs issuance of common stock. The Company also doubled its annual dividend per share in 2004. These items were partially offset by additional proceeds from the issuance of senior notes by the Holding Company and a decrease in repayments of long term debt for the comparable periods. THE HOLDING COMPANY CAPITAL Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies Capital. The Holding Company and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At December 31, 2005, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Banks risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory agencies "well capitalized" standards and all of MetLife, Inc.s risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the "adequately capitalized" standards. At December 31, 2004, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in compliance with the aforementioned minimum capital standards and each had risk based and leverage capital ratios that met the federal banking regulatory agencies "well capitalized" standards. 97 The following table contains the RBC ratios as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the regulatory requirements for MetLife Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: METLIFE, INC. RBC RATIOS BANK HOLDING COMPANY AS OF DECEMBER 31, REGULATORY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS REQUIREMENTS "WELL 2005 2004 MINIMUM CAPITALIZED" Total RBC Ratio............................... 9.57% 10.12% 8.00% 10.00% Tier 1 RBC Ratio.............................. 9.21% 9.66% 4.00% 6.00% Tier 1 Leverage Ratio......................... 5.39% 6.02% 4.00% N/A METLIFE BANK RBC RATIOS BANK AS OF DECEMBER 31, REGULATORY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS REQUIREMENTS "WELL 2005 2004 MINIMUM CAPITALIZED" Total RBC Ratio.............................. 11.78% 17.09% 8.00% 10.00% Tier 1 RBC Ratio............................. 11.22% 16.38% 4.00% 6.00% Tier 1 Leverage Ratio........................ 5.96% 10.84% 4.00% 5.00% LIQUIDITY Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and is provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to liquidity. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. LIQUIDITY SOURCES Dividends. The primary source of the Holding Companys liquidity is dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar 98 year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. The maximum amount of dividends which could be paid to the Holding Company by Metropolitan Life, TIC, MPC and Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ("MTL"), in 2005, without prior regulatory approval, was $880 million, $0 million, $187 million and $119 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005, Metropolitan Life paid $880 million in ordinary dividends for which prior insurance regulatory approval was not required and $2,320 million in special dividends as approved by the New York Superintendent of Insurance. TIC has not paid any dividends since its acquisition by the Holding Company and may not make dividend payments for a two year period following the date of acquisition without regulatory approval. MPC paid $400 million in special dividends, as approved by the Rhode Island Superintendent of Insurance, during the year ended December 31, 2005. MTL paid $54 million in ordinary dividends for which prior insurance regulatory approval was not required and $873 million in special dividends as approved by the Delaware Superintendent of Insurance during the year ended December 31, 2005. MetLife Mexico, S.A. paid dividends to the Holding Company of $276 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, various subsidiaries paid $19 million in total to the Holding Company for the year ended December 31, 2005. The maximum amount of dividends which Metropolitan Life, TIC, MPC and MTL may pay to the Holding Company in 2006 without prior regulatory approval is $863 million, $0 million, $178 million, and $85 million, respectively. If paid before a specified date in 2006, some or all of an otherwise ordinary dividend may be deemed special by the relevant regulatory authority and require approval. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Holding Company had $668 million and $2.1 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Holding Company had $961 million and $0 million in short term debt outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Holding Company had $7.3 billion and $5.7 billion of unaffiliated long term debt outstanding, respectively. On December 30, 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.24% maturing in 2015. On April 27, 2005, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration statement (the "2005 Registration Statement") with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), covering $11 billion of securities. On May 27, 2005, the 2005 Registration Statement became effective, permitting the offer and sale, from time to time, of a wide range of debt and equity securities. In addition to the $11 billion of securities registered on the 2005 Registration Statement, approximately $3.9 billion of registered but unissued securities remained available for issuance by the Holding Company as of such date, from the $5.0 billion shelf registration statement filed with the SEC during the first quarter of 2004, permitting the Holding Company to issue an aggregate of $14.9 billion of registered securities. The terms of any offering will be established at the time of the offering. During June 2005, in connection with the Companys acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company issued $2.0 billion of senior notes, $2.07 billion of common equity units and $2.1 billion of preferred stock under the 2005 Registration Statement. In addition, $0.7 billion of senior notes were sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, a portion of which may be 99 resold in the United States under the 2005 Registration Statement. Remaining capacity under the 2005 Registration Statement after such issuances is $6.6 billion. Debt Issuances. On June 23, 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States public market $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). On June 29, 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On December 30, 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.24% maturing in 2015. The following table summarizes the Holding Companys outstanding senior notes issuances: INTEREST ISSUE DATE PRINCIPAL(3) RATE MATURITY (IN MILLIONS) June 2005............................................... $1,000 5.00% 2015 June 2005............................................... $1,000 5.70% 2035 June 2005(1)............................................ $ 688 5.25% 2020 December 2004(1)........................................ $ 602 5.38% 2024 June 2004(2)............................................ $ 350 5.50% 2014 June 2004(2)............................................ $ 750 6.38% 2034 November 2003........................................... $ 500 5.00% 2013 November 2003........................................... $ 200 5.88% 2033 December 2002........................................... $ 400 5.38% 2012 December 2002........................................... $ 600 6.50% 2032 November 2001........................................... $ 500 5.25% 2006 November 2001........................................... $ 750 6.13% 2011 (1) This amount represents the translation of pounds sterling into U.S. Dollars using the noon buying rate on December 30, 2005 of $1.7188 as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (2) On July 23, 2004, the Holding Company reopened its June 3, 2004 senior notes offering and increased the principal outstanding on the 5.50% notes due June 2014, from $200 million to $350 million and on the 6.38% notes due June 2034, from $400 million to $750 million. (3) This table excludes any premium or discount on the senior notes issuances. See also " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units" for junior subordinated debt securities of $2,134 million issued in connection with issuance of common equity units. Debt Repayments. The Holding Company repaid a $1,006 million, 3.911% senior note which matured on May 15, 2005. Preferred Stock. On June 13, 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the "Series A preferred shares") with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share for aggregate proceeds of $600 million. 100 On June 16, 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares of 6.50% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the "Series B preferred shares"), with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion. The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the "Preferred Shares") rank senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by the Holding Companys board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of (i) 1.00% above three month LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Companys common stock or any other securities ranking junior to the Preferred Shares unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for. The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and shareholders equity levels. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn sufficient operating income. The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with respect to members of the board of directors of the Holding Company. The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date, subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be redeemable at the Holding Companys option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus declared and unpaid dividends. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Uses Dividends." Common Equity Units. In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public offering on June 21, 2005. Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per unit and consists of (i) a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II ("Series A Trust"), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; (ii) a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series B trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust III ("Series B Trust" and, together with the Series A Trust, the "Trusts"), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and (iii) a stock purchase contract under which the holder of the common equity unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $12.50. The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $64 million in trust common securities issued 101 equally by the Trusts. The common and preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A and Series B Trusts will make quarterly distributions on the common and preferred securities at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively. The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. The guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contract. The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates to provide the holders of the common equity units with the proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the Series A trust preferred securities and through February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a junior subordinated debt security payable on August 15, 2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions. Each stock purchase contract requires (i) the Holding Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per stock purchase contract thereafter; and (ii) the holder of the common equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock during a specified 20 day period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Holding Company will receive proceeds of $2,070 million and issue between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of common stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at the option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate. Credit Facilities. The Holding Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $3.0 billion ($1.5 billion expiring in 2009, which it shares with Metropolitan Life and MetLife Funding, and $1.5 billion expiring in 2010, which it shares with MetLife Funding) as of December 31, 2005. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at varying rates as stated in the agreements. These facilities are primarily used for general corporate purposes and as back up lines of credit for the borrowers commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2005, neither the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life nor MetLife Funding had 102 borrowed against these credit facilities. At December 31, 2005, $374 million of the unsecured credit facilities were used in support of letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. Letters of Credit. On July 1, 2005, in connection with the closing of the acquisition of Travelers, the L/C Agreement entered into by TLARC and various institutional lenders on April 25, 2005 became effective. Under the L/C Agreement, the Holding Company agreed to unconditionally guarantee reimbursement obligations of TLARC with respect to reinsurance letters of credit issued pursuant to the L/C Agreement and replaced Citigroup Insurance Holding Company as guarantor upon closing of the Travelers acquisition. The L/C Agreement expires five years after the closing of the acquisition. Also during 2005, Exeter entered into three ten year letter of credit and reimbursement agreements totaling $800 million with an institutional lender, and the Holding Company and Exeter entered into a $500 million ten year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement with another institutional lender. The following table provides details on the capacity and outstanding balances of such committed facilities as of December 31, 2005: LETTER OF CREDIT UNUSED ACCOUNT PARTY EXPIRATION CAPACITY ISSUANCES COMMITMENTS (IN MILLIONS) The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company................................. July 2010 $2,000 $1,930 $ 70 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... March 2015 225 225 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... June 2015 250 250 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. .......... September 2015 325 325 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. and MetLife, Inc. .......................... December 2015 500 280 220 Total..................................... $3,300 $2,685 $615 Note: The Holding Company is a guarantor under the first four agreements and a party to the fifth agreement above. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Holding Company had $190 million and $369 million, respectively, in outstanding letters of credit from various banks, all of which automatically renew for one year periods. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Holding Companys actual future cash funding requirements. LIQUIDITY USES The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include service on debt, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the Holding Companys common stock. Dividends. On November 15, 2005, the Holding Companys board of directors declared dividends of $0.3077569 per share, for a total of $8 million, on the Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on the Series B preferred shares. Both dividends were paid on December 15, 2005 to shareholders of record as of November 30, 2005. On October 25, 2005, the Holding Companys board of directors approved an annual dividend for 2005 of $0.52 per share of common stock, for a total of $394 million, payable on December 15, 2005 to common shareholders of record on November 7, 2005. The 2005 common stock dividend represents a 13% increase from the 2004 annual common stock dividend of $0.46 per share. Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding Companys board of directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Dividends." 103 On August 22, 2005, the Holding Companys board of directors declared dividends of $0.286569 per share, for a total of $7 million, on the Series A preferred shares, and $0.4017361 per share, for a total of $24 million, on the Series B preferred shares. Both dividends were paid on September 15, 2005 to shareholders of record as of August 31, 2005. See " Subsequent Events." Affiliated Transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Holding Company invested an aggregate of $904 million and $761 million in various subsidiaries, respectively. On December 12, 2005, RGA repurchased 1.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of approximately $76 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to RGA from third parties and is purchasing the shares in the open market over the subsequent few months to return to the lenders. RGA will either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the shares. These repurchases resulted in an increase in the Companys ownership percentage of RGA to approximately to 53% at December 31, 2005 from approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. In February 2006, the final purchase price was determined resulting in a cash settlement substantially equal to the aggregate cost. RGA recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans to affiliates consisted of the following at December 31, 2005 and 2004: DECEMBER 31, INTEREST AFFILIATE RATE MATURITY DATE 2005 2004 (IN MILLIONS) Metropolitan Life........................ 7.13% December 15, 2032 $ 400 $400 Metropolitan Life........................ 7.13% January 15, 2033 100 100 Metropolitan Life........................ 5.00% December 31, 2007 800 MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company................................ 7.35% April 1, 2035 400 Total.................................... $1,700 $500 Share Repurchase. On October 26, 2004, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. Under this authorization, the Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. On December 16, 2004, the Holding Company repurchased 7,281,553 shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $300 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In April 2005, the Holding Company received a cash adjustment of approximately $7 million based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the common stock, for a final purchase price of approximately $293 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. At December 31, 2005, the Holding Company had approximately $716 million remaining on its October 26, 2004 common stock repurchase program. As a result of the acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company has suspended its common stock repurchase activity. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of the Holding Companys common stock. 104 The following table summarizes the 2004 and 2003 common stock repurchase activity of the Holding Company, which includes the accelerated common stock repurchase activity in the fourth quarter of 2004: DECEMBER 31, 2004 2003 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Shares Repurchased......................................... 26,373,952 2,997,200 Cost....................................................... $ 1,000 $ 97 Support Agreements. The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with three of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors, First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2005, the capital and surplus of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amounts referenced above, and their total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2005. In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, support agreements regarding certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company were provided to various insurance regulators. The Holding Company committed to the Delaware Department of Insurance, in the event that at December 31, 2005 the total adjusted capital of MTL, a Delaware subsidiary of the Holding Company, is below 250% of the company action level RBC, the Holding Company would make a capital contribution to MTL in an amount that would make up for such shortfall. Pursuant to this commitment, during 2005, the Holding Company made a capital contribution of $50 million to MTL. At December 31, 2005, MTLs company action level was in excess of 250%. The Holding Company also committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to maintain the minimum capital and surplus of The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company, a South Carolina subsidiary of the Holding Company, at the greater of $250,000 or 10% of net loss reserves (loss reserves less deferred acquisition costs). Based on managements analysis and comparison of its current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, its portfolio of liquid assets, anticipated securities issuances and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On February 21, 2006, the Holding Companys board of directors declared dividends of $0.3432031 per share, for a total of $9 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Holding Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2006, the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2006 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2006. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS COMMITMENTS TO FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $2,684 million and $1,324 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. 105 MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $2,974 million and $1,189 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The purpose of these loans is to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other equipment. The Companys commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Uses." CREDIT FACILITIES AND LETTER OF CREDIT The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit" for further description of such arrangements. SHARE BASED ARRANGEMENTS In connection with the issuance of the common equity units, the Holding Company has issued forward stock purchase contracts under which the Company will issue, in 2008 and 2009, between 39.0 and 47.8 million shares, depending upon whether the share price is greater than $43.45 and less than $53.10. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units" for further description of such arrangements. GUARANTEES In the course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $2 billion, with a cumulative maximum of $5.2 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees in the future. In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by laws. Also, the Company indemnifies other of its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Companys interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these indemnities in the future. The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees in the future. 106 In the first quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a liability of $4 million with respect to indemnities provided in connection with a certain disposition. The approximate term for this liability is 18 months. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to pay under these indemnities is approximately $500 million. Due to the uncertainty in assessing changes to the liability over the term, the liability on the Companys consolidated balance sheet will remain until either expiration or settlement of the guarantee unless evidence clearly indicates that the estimates should be revised. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company released $6 million of a liability due to the expiration of indemnities provided in a prior year disposition. The Companys recorded liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were $9 million and $10 million, respectively. In connection with RSATs, the Company writes credit default swap obligations requiring payment of principal due in exchange for the reference credit obligation, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit events for the referenced entities. In the event of a specified credit event, the Companys maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced credits becomes worthless, is $593 million at December 31, 2005. The credit default swaps expire at various times during the next six years. OTHER COMMITMENTS TIC is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the "FHLB of Boston") and has entered into several funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby TIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on TICs residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize TICs obligations under the funding agreements. TIC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The funding agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien, provide that upon any event of default by TIC, the FHLB of Bostons recovery is limited to the amount of TICs liability under the outstanding funding agreements. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements with the Bank as of December 31, 2005 is $1.1 billion, which is included in policyholder account balances. COLLATERAL FOR SECURITIES LENDING The Company has noncash collateral for securities lending on deposits from customers, which cannot be sold or re pledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $207 million and $17 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. PENSIONS AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS DESCRIPTION OF PLANS Plan Description Overview Subsidiaries of the Company (the "Subsidiaries") sponsor and or administer various qualified and non qualified defined benefit pension plans and postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. Virtually all of the Subsidiaries obligations under the defined benefit pension plans relate to traditional defined benefit obligations. Effective January 1, 1994, the basic plan benefit under the traditional defined benefit pension plan was amended to provide an annual benefit based upon a participants final five year average earnings and credited years of service integrated with social security benefits. Effective January 1, 2003 the pension plan was amended to incorporate a new benefit formula for employees hired on or after January 1, 2002 and those existing employees who elected to have new accruals after December 31, 2002 determined under the new formula. Under the new benefit formula, amounts are credited to individual participants "hypothetical" accounts. Such plan accumulations are commonly referred to as cash balance plans. Eligible participants accounts are credited monthly for benefits equal to five percent of eligible monthly pay, and an additional five percent on the excess eligible monthly pay over the current 107 social security wage base. Participants are also credited interest each month based on the average annual rate of interest on 30 year U.S. Treasury securities as published by the IRS in November of the prior year. Postretirement benefits consist primarily of healthcare and life insurance benefits. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for a covered subsidiary, may become eligible for these postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for postretirement benefits. Financial Summary A summary of the plan obligations and plan assets for the pension and postretirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are presented below. A December 31 measurement date is used for all the Subsidiaries defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. As described more fully in the discussion of plan assets which follows, the Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance contracts supporting 98% of all pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. The benefit obligations and funded status of the Companys defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans are as follows: DECEMBER 31, POSTRETIREMENT PENSION BENEFITS BENEFITS 2005 2004 2005 2004 (IN MILLIONS) Projected benefit obligation at end of year....... $5,766 $5,523 $ 2,176 $1,975 Fair value of plan assets at end of year.......... 5,518 5,392 1,093 1,062 Underfunded....................................... $ (248) $ (131) $(1,083) $ (913) Unrecognized net asset at transition.............. 1 1 Unrecognized net actuarial losses................. 1,528 1,510 377 199 Unrecognized prior service cost................... 54 67 (122) (165) Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost.................... $1,334 $1,447 $ (827) $ (879) Qualified plan prepaid pension cost............... $1,691 $1,782 $ $ Non qualified plan accrued pension cost........... (435) (478) (827) (879) Intangible assets................................. 12 13 Accumulated other comprehensive loss.............. 66 130 Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost.................... $1,334 $1,447 $ (827) $ (879) The prepaid (accrued) benefit cost for pension benefits presented in the above table consists of prepaid benefit costs of $1,696 million and $1,785 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and accrued benefit costs of $362 million and $338 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows: NON QUALIFIED QUALIFIED PLAN PLAN TOTAL 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 (IN MILLIONS) Aggregate fair value of plan assets (principally Company contracts)....................... $5,518 $5,392 $ $ $5,518 $5,392 Aggregate projected benefit obligation....................... 5,258 4,999 508 524 5,766 5,523 Over (under) funded................ $ 260 $ 393 $(508) $(524) $ (248) $ (131) 108 The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,349 million and $5,149 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 (IN MILLIONS) Projected benefit obligation................................ $538 $550 Accumulated benefit obligation.............................. $449 $482 Fair value of plan assets................................... $ 19 $ 17 Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: DECEMBER 31, PENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS BENEFITS 2005 2004 2005 2004 (IN MILLIONS) Projected benefit obligation.......................... $538 $550 $2,176 $1,975 Fair value of plan assets............................. $ 19 $ 17 $1,093 $1,062 PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS Pension Plan Obligations Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions ("SFAS 87") establishes the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the projected pension benefit obligation ("PBO") is defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation ("ABO") is the actuarial present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary levels. The PBO and ABO of the pension plans are set forth in the preceding section. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate used to determine the present value of future benefit payments, the expected rate of compensation increases and average expected retirement age. Assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations were as follows: DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 Weighted average discount rate.............................. 5.82% 5.87% Rate of compensation increase............................... 3% 8% 3% 8% Average expected retirement age............................. 61 61 The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate projected pension benefit obligation when due. The yield of this hypothetical portfolio, constructed of bonds rated AA or better by Moodys resulted in a discount rate of approximately 5.82% and 5.87% for the defined pension plans as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the pension benefit obligation. This increase is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 2005 PBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the PBO of approximately $175 million. 109 Changes in discount rates are amortized into earnings as actuarial gains and losses. At the end of 2005, total unrecognized actuarial losses were $1,528 million, as compared to $1,510 million in 2004. The majority of the unrecognized actuarial losses are due to declining discount rates in recent years. These losses will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of 2005, the average remaining service period of active employees was 8.3 years for the pension plans. As the benefits provided under the defined pension plans are calculated as a percentage of future earnings, an assumption of future compensation increases is required to determine the projected benefit obligation. These rates are derived through periodic analysis of historical demographic data conducted by an independent actuarial firm. The last review of such data was conducted using salary information through 2003 and the Subsidiaries believe that no circumstances have since occurred that would result in a material change to these rates. SFAS 87 also requires the recognition of an additional minimum liability and an intangible asset (limited to unrecognized prior service cost) if the market value of pension plan assets is less than the ABO at the measurement date. The Subsidiaries additional minimum liability was $78 million, and the intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of the additional minimum liability over the intangible asset, of $66 million is recorded, net of income taxes, as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions ("SFAS 106"), establishes the accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations ("EPBO") which represents the actuarial present value of all postretirement benefits expected to be paid after retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike for pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligations ("APBO") represents the actuarial present value of future postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a particular date. The APBO is recorded in the financial statements. The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate, the health care cost trend rate and the average expected retirement age. The determination of the discount rate and the average expected retirement age are substantially consistent with the determination described previously under the pension plan. The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation were as follows: DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 Pre Medicare eligible claims....... 9.5% down to 5% in 2014 8% down to 5% in 2010 Medicare eligible claims........... 11.5% down to 5% in 2018 10% down to 5% in 2014 Assumed health care cost trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: ONE PERCENT ONE PERCENT INCREASE DECREASE (IN MILLIONS) Effect on total of service and interest cost components..... $ 15 $ (12) Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation..... $182 $(153) A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. This increase is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 110 2005 APBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the APBO of approximately $65 million. Changes in discount rates are amortized into earnings as actuarial gains and losses. At the end of 2005, total unrecognized actuarial losses were $377 million, as compared to $199 million in 2004. The majority of the unrecognized actuarial losses are due to declining discount rates, an increase in expected health care inflation and changes in demographic assumptions. These losses will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the postretirement benefit plans. At the end of 2005, the average remaining service period of active employees was 10.1 years for the postretirement benefit plans. The Company expects to receive subsidies on prescription drug benefits beginning in 2006 under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Prescription Drug Act"). The other postretirement benefit plan accumulated benefit obligation was remeasured effective July 1, 2004 in order to determine the effect of the expected subsidies on net periodic postretirement benefit cost. As a result, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was reduced by $213 million at July 1, 2004 and net periodic postretirement benefit cost from July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 was reduced by $17 million. The reduction of net periodic benefit cost was due to reductions in service cost of $3 million, interest cost of $6 million, and amortization of prior actuarial loss of $8 million. The reduction in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation related to the Prescription Drug Act was $298 million and $230 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the reduction of net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $45 million, which was due to reductions in service cost of $6 million, interest cost of $16 million and amortization of prior actuarial loss of $23 million. An additional $23 million reduction in the December 31, 2005 accumulated postretirement benefit plan obligation is the result of an acturial loss recognized during the year resulting from updated assumptions including a January 1, 2005 participant census and new claims cost experience and the effect of a December 31, 2005 change in the discount rate. PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST Pension Cost Net periodic pension cost is comprised of the following: 1) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the projected pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. 2) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the projected pension benefit obligation at the end of each year. 3) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension fund assets in a particular year. 4) Amortization of Unrecognized Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to pension benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods these costs are amortized to pension expense over the expected service years of the employees. 5) Amortization of Actuarial Loss The amortization of actuarial loss comprises of differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on pension plan assets or projected benefit obligation at the end of each year and the amortization of the unrecognized net gain or loss from prior periods. 111 The Subsidiaries recognized pension expense of $146 million in 2005 as compared to $129 million in 2004 and $214 million in 2003. The major components of net periodic pension cost described above are as follows: PENSION BENEFITS 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) Service cost................................................ $ 142 $ 129 $ 123 Interest cost............................................... 318 311 314 Expected return on plan assets.............................. (446) (428) (335) Amortization of prior actuarial losses...................... 116 101 86 Amortization of prior service cost.......................... 16 16 16 Curtailment cost............................................ 10 Net periodic benefit cost................................... $ 146 $ 129 $ 214 The increase in expense was primarily a result of both increase in service cost and amortization of actuarial losses resulting largely from a declining discount rate, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the expected rates of return on plan assets. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic pension cost was 5.83%, 6.10% and 6.74% for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expected rate of return on pension plan assets used to calculate the net periodic pension cost for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was 8.50%, 8.50% and 8.51%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the pension plan in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Due to anticipated changes in asset allocations, the expected rate of return will be lowered to 8.25% for purposes of determining 2006 net periodic pension benefit cost. Based on the December 31, 2005 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of approximately $14 million for the pension plans. Postretirement Benefit Cost The net periodic postretirement benefit cost benefit consists of the following: 1) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the projected postretirement benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. 2) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the projected postretirement benefit obligation at the end of each year. 3) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated postretirement fund assets in a particular year. 4) Amortization of Unrecognized Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to postretirement benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods these costs are amortized to postretirement benefit expense over the expected service years of the employees. 112 5) Amortization of Actuarial Loss The amortization of actuarial loss comprises of differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on postretirement benefit plan assets or expected postretirement plan benefit obligation at the end of each year and the amortization of the unrecognized net gain or loss from prior periods. The Subsidiaries recognized postretirement benefit expense of $77 million in 2005 as compared to $62 million in 2004 and $81 million in 2003. The major components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost described above are as follows: POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) Service cost................................................ $ 37 $ 32 $ 39 Interest cost............................................... 121 119 123 Expected return on plan assets.............................. (79) (77) (72) Amortization of prior actuarial losses...................... 15 7 8 Amortization of prior service cost.......................... (17) (19) (20) Curtailment cost............................................ 3 Net periodic benefit cost................................... $ 77 $ 62 $ 81 The increase in expense was primarily a result of both increase in service cost and amortization of actuarial losses resulting largely from a declining discount rate, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the expected rates of return on plan assets. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic pension cost was 5.98%, 6.20% and 6.82% for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets used to calculate the net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was 7.51%, 7.91% and 7.79%. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the postretirement plans in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Due to anticipated changes in asset allocations, the expected rate of return will be lowered to 8.25% for healthcare benefits and is estimated to remain the same at 6.25% for life benefits. Based on the December 31, 2005 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of approximately $3 million for the postretirement plans. PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN ASSETS Pension Plan Assets Assets of the pension plans are invested within group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $5,432 million and $5,324 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with what the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties who are similarly situated. The pension plans net assets invested in separate accounts are stated at the aggregate fair value of units of participation. Such value reflects accumulated contributions, dividends and realized and unrealized investment gains or losses apportioned to such contributions, less withdrawals, distributions, allocable expenses 113 relating to the purchase, sale and maintenance of the assets and an allocable part of such separate accounts investment expenses. Separate account investments in fixed income and equity securities are generally carried at published market value, or if published market values are not readily available, at estimated market values. Investments in short term fixed income securities are generally reflected as cash equivalents and carried at fair value. Real estate investments are carried at estimated fair value based on appraisals performed by third party real estate appraisal firms, and generally, determined by discounting projected cash flows over periods of time and at interest rates deemed appropriate for each investment. Information on the physical value of the property and the sales prices of comparable properties is used to corroborate fair value estimates. Estimated fair value of hedge fund net assets is generally determined by third party pricing vendors using quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models which are affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market supply and demand, market volatility and liquidity. The weighted average and weighted average target allocation of pension plan assets within the separate accounts is as follows: DECEMBER 31, WEIGHTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE TARGET AVERAGE ALLOCATION 2005 2004 2006 ASSET CATEGORY Equity securities.......................................... 47% 50% 30% 65% Fixed maturities........................................... 37% 36% 20% 70% Other (Real Estate and Alternative Investments)............ 16% 14% 0% 25% Total.................................................... 100% 100% Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions. Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets Assets of the postretirement benefit plans are invested within life insurance and reserve contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $1,039 million and $1,011 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with what the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties who are similarly situated. The valuation of separate accounts and the investments within such separate accounts invested in by the postretirement plans are similar to that described in the preceding section on pension plans. 114 The weighted average and weighted average target allocation of other postretirement benefit plan assets within the separate account is as follows: DECEMBER 31, WEIGHTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE AVERAGE TARGET ALLOCATION 2005 2004 2006 ASSET CATEGORY Equity securities....................................... 42% 41% 30% 45% Fixed maturities........................................ 53% 57% 45% 70% Other................................................... 5% 2% 0% 10% Total................................................. 100% 100% Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions. FUNDING AND CASH FLOWS OF PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS Pension Plan Obligations It is the Subsidiaries practice to make contributions to the qualified pension plan to comply with minimum funding requirements of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and or to maintain a fully funded accumulated benefit obligation. In accordance with such practice, no contributions were required for the year ended December 31, 2005 and no contributions are anticipated to be required for 2006. The non qualified pension plans are funded as benefit payments become due under the provision of the plans. The Subsidiaries expect to make discretionary contributions of $187 million towards the pension plans in 2006. Gross pension benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be as follows: PENSION BENEFITS (IN MILLIONS) 2006........................................................ $320 2007........................................................ $325 2008........................................................ $337 2009........................................................ $351 2010........................................................ $355 2011 2015................................................... $1,984 Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Postretirement benefits represent a non vested, non guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current regulations do not require specific funding levels for these benefits. While the Subsidiaries have funded such plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries practice to use their general assets to pay claims as they come due instead of utilizing plan assets. The Subsidiaries expect to make discretionary contributions of $128 million, based upon expected gross benefit payments, towards the postretirement plan obligations in 2006. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act to offset such payments. 115 Gross benefit payments and gross subsidy payments under the Prescription Drug Act for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be as follows: PRESCRIPTION NET POSTRETIREMENT DRUG ACT POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS SUBSIDIES BENEFITS (IN MILLIONS) 2006........................................... $128 $11 $117 2007........................................... $133 $12 $121 2008........................................... $138 $13 $125 2009........................................... $144 $13 $131 2010........................................... $150 $14 $136 2011 2015...................................... $833 $83 $750 INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assessments levied against the Company were $4 million, $10 million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company maintained a liability of $90 million, and a related asset for premium tax offsets of $54 million, at December 31, 2005 for undiscounted future assessments in respect of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. In the past five years, none of the aggregate assessments levied against MetLifes insurance subsidiaries has been material. The Company has established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155 amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging ("SFAS 133") and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities ("SFAS 140"). SFAS 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other changes, SFAS 155 (i) clarifies which interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (ii) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation; (iii) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and (iv) eliminates the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity ("QSPE") from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial interest. SFAS 155 will be applied prospectively and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. SFAS 155 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 116 The FASB has issued additional guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows: In June 2005, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38, Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option ("Issue B38") and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor ("Issue B39"). Issue B38 clarified that the potential settlement of a debtors obligation to a creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net settlement criteria of SFAS No. 133. Issue B39 clarified that an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor will recover substantially all of its initial net investment. Issues B38 and B39, which must be adopted as of the first day of the first fiscal quarter beginning after December 15, 2005, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective October 1, 2003, the Company adopted Issue B36. Issue B36 concluded that (i) a companys funds withheld payable and or receivable under certain reinsurance arrangements; and (ii) a debt instrument that incorporates credit risk exposures that are unrelated or only partially related to the creditworthiness of the obligor include an embedded derivative feature that is not clearly and closely related to the host contract. Therefore, the embedded derivative feature is measured at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in fair value are reported in income. As a result of the adoption of Issue B36, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting of $26 million, net of income taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2003. Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 149"). SFAS 149 amended and clarified the accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. Except for certain previously issued and effective guidance, SFAS 149 was effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The Companys adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance in FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 140 2, Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140 ("FSP 140 2"). FSP 140 2 clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under FSP 140 2, the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event outside the control of the transferor. FSP 140 2 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued SOP 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts ("SOP 05 1"). SOP 05 1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and For Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. SOP 05 1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. Under SOP 05 1, modifications that result in a substantially unchanged contract will be accounted for as a continuation of the replaced contract. A replacement contract that is substantially changed will be accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contract resulting in a release of unamortized deferred acquisition costs, unearned revenue and deferred sales inducements associated with the replaced contract. The guidance in SOP 05 1 will be applied prospectively and is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning 117 after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SOP 05 1 and does not expect that the pronouncement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In September 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached consensus on Issue No. 05 7, Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded in Debt Instruments and Related Issues ("EITF 05 7"). EITF 05 7 provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification. The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an embedded conversion option upon modification should be included in the analysis of EITF Issue No. 96 19, Debtors Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments, to determine whether a modification or extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value of a conversion option should be recognized upon the modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid in capital. EITF 05 7 will be applied prospectively and is effective for all debt modifications occurring in periods beginning after December 15, 2005. EITF 05 7 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In September 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 05 8, Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature ("EITF 05 8"). EITF 05 8 concludes that (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that should be accounted for as a temporary difference and (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for the basis difference should result in an adjustment to additional paid in capital. EITF 05 8 will be applied retrospectively for all instruments with a beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue No. 98 5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, and EITF Issue No. 00 27, Application of Issue No. 98 5 to Certain Convertible Instruments, and is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2005. EITF 05 8 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 29 ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 05 6, Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements ("EITF 05 6"). EITF 05 6 provides guidance on determining the amortization period for leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required by EITF 05 6, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments ("EITF 03 1"). EITF 03 1 provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method should be considered other than temporary and recognized in income. EITF 03 1 also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity securities classified as available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities ("SFAS 115"), that are impaired at the balance sheet date but for which an other than temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of other than temporary impairment but has issued FSP 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments ("FSP 115 1"), which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired as set forth in EITF 03 1. As required by FSP 115 1, the Company adopted 118 this guidance on a prospective basis, which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures. In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04 5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights ("EITF 04 5"). EITF 04 5 provides a framework for determining whether a general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on substantive rights. EITF 04 5 was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed partnerships and for any pre existing limited partnerships that modified their partnership agreements after that date. The adoption of this provision of EITF 04 5 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. EITF 04 5 must be adopted by January 1, 2006 for all other limited partnerships through a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening equity or it may be applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial statements. The adoption of this provision of EITF 04 5 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3("SFAS 154"). The statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long lived, non financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment ("SFAS 123(r)"), which revised SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123(r) provides additional guidance on determining whether certain financial instruments awarded in share based payment transactions are liabilities. SFAS 123(r) also requires that the cost of all share based transactions be measured at fair value and recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for an award. The SEC issued a final ruling in April 2005 allowing a public company that is not a small business issuer to implement SFAS 123(r) at the beginning of the next fiscal year after June 15, 2005. Thus, the revised pronouncement must be adopted by the Company by January 1, 2006. As permitted under SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123, the Company elected to use the prospective method of accounting for stock options granted subsequent to December 31, 2002. Options granted prior to January 1, 2003 will continue to be accounted for under the intrinsic value method until the adoption of SFAS 123(r). In addition, the pro forma impact of accounting for these options at fair value continued to be accounted for under the intrinsic value method until the last of those options vested in 2005. As all stock options currently accounted for under the intrinsic value method vested prior to the effective date, implementation of SFAS 123(r) will not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("FSP 109 2"). The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") introduced a one time dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer. FSP 109 2 provides companies additional time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously been recorded. Effective July 1, 2004, the Company prospectively adopted FSP No. 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("FSP 106 2"). FSP 106 2 provides accounting guidance to employers that sponsor postretirement health care plans 119 that provide prescription drug benefits. The Company expects to receive subsidies on prescription drug benefits beginning in 2006 under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 based on the Companys determination that the prescription drug benefits offered under certain postretirement plans are actuarially equivalent to the benefits offered under Medicare Part D. The postretirement benefit plan assets and accumulated benefit obligation were remeasured to determine the effect of the expected subsidies on net periodic postretirement benefit cost. As a result, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was reduced by $213 million at July 1, 2004. Effective July 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies ("EITF 03 16"). EITF 03 16 provides guidance regarding whether a limited liability company should be viewed as similar to a corporation or similar to a partnership for purposes of determining whether a noncontrolling investment should be accounted for using the cost method or the equity method of accounting. EITF 03 16 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective April 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03 6, Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128 ("EITF 03 6"). EITF 03 6 provides guidance on determining whether a security should be considered a participating security for purposes of computing earnings per common share and how earnings should be allocated to the participating security. EITF 03 6 did not have an impact on the Companys earnings per common share calculations or amounts. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted SOP 03 1, as interpreted by a Technical Practice Aid ("TPA"), issued by the AICPA. SOP 03 1 provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. In June 2004, the FASB released FSP No. 97 1, Situations in Which Paragraphs 17(b) and 20 of FASB Statement No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, Permit or Require Accrual of an Unearned Revenue Liability ("FSP 97 1"), which included clarification that unearned revenue liabilities should be considered in determining the necessary insurance benefit liability required under SOP 03 1. Since the Company had considered unearned revenue in determining its SOP 03 1 benefit liabilities, FSP 97 1 did not impact its consolidated financial statements. As a result of the adoption of SOP 03 1, effective January 1, 2004, the Company decreased the liability for future policyholder benefits for changes in the methodology relating to various guaranteed death and annuitization benefits and for determining liabilities for certain universal life insurance contracts by $4 million, which has been reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. This amount is net of corresponding changes in DAC, including VOBA and unearned revenue liability ("offsets"), under certain variable annuity and life contracts and income taxes. Certain other contracts sold by the Company provide for a return through periodic crediting rates, surrender adjustments or termination adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets owned by the Company. To the extent that such contracts are not accounted for as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS No. 133 and not already credited to the contract account balance, under SOP 03 1 the change relating to the fair value of the referenced pool of assets is recorded as a liability with the change in the liability recorded as policyholder benefits and claims. Prior to the adoption of SOP 03 1, the Company recorded the change in such liability as other comprehensive income. At adoption, this change decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by $63 million, net of income taxes, which were recorded as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, costs associated with enhanced or bonus crediting rates to contractholders must be deferred and amortized over the life of the related contract using assumptions consistent with the amortization of DAC. Since the Company followed a similar approach prior to adoption of SOP 03 1, the provisions of SOP 03 1 relating to sales inducements had no significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In accordance with SOP 03 1s guidance for the reporting of certain separate accounts, at adoption, the Company also reclassified $1.7 billion of separate account assets to general account investments and $1.7 billion of separate account liabilities to future policy benefits and policyholder account balances. This reclassification decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by $27 million, net of income taxes, which were reported as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. Due to the adoption of SOP 03 1, the Company recorded a cumulative effect 120 of a change in accounting of $86 million, net of income taxes of $46 million, for the year ended December 31, 2004. In December 2003, FASB revised SFAS No. 132, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106 ("SFAS 132(r)"). SFAS 132(r) retains most of the disclosure requirements of SFAS 132 and requires additional disclosure about assets, obligations, cash flows and net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. SFAS 132(r) was primarily effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003; however, certain disclosures about foreign plans and estimated future benefit payments were effective for fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004. The Companys adoption of SFAS 132(r) did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements since it only revised disclosure requirements. During 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin ("ARB") No. 51 ("FIN 46"), and its December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)"). Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE") and have been consolidated, in accordance with the transition rules and effective dates, because the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. A VIE is defined as (i) any entity in which the equity investments at risk in such entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest; or (ii) any entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated support from other parties. Effective February 1, 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46 for VIEs created or acquired on or after February 1, 2003 and, effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46(r) with respect to interests in entities formerly considered special purpose entities ("SPEs"), including interests in asset backed securities and collateralized debt obligations. The adoption of FIN 46 as of February 1, 2003 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) at December 31, 2003 did not require the Company to consolidate any additional VIEs that were not previously consolidated. In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46(r), the Company elected to defer until March 31, 2004 the consolidation of interests in VIEs for non SPEs acquired prior to February 1, 2003 for which it is the primary beneficiary. As of March 31, 2004, the Company consolidated assets and liabilities relating to real estate joint ventures of $78 million and $11 million, respectively, and assets and liabilities relating to other limited partnerships of $29 million and less than $1 million, respectively, for VIEs for which the Company was deemed to be the primary beneficiary. There was no impact to net income from the adoption of FIN 46. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted FIN No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 requires entities to establish liabilities for certain types of guarantees and expands financial statement disclosures for others. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of FIN 45 were applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption of FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recorded and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as required by EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring ("EITF 94 3"). As required by SFAS 146, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections ("SFAS 145"). In addition to amending or rescinding other existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings, or describe their applicability under changed conditions, SFAS 145 generally precludes companies from recording gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt as an extraordinary item. SFAS 145 also requires sale leaseback treatment for certain modifications of a capital lease that result in the 121 lease being classified as an operating lease. The adoption of SFAS 145 did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. INVESTMENTS The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: Credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; Interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and Market valuation risk. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies, product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit and interest rate risks. 122 COMPOSITION OF PORTFOLIO AND INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table illustrates the net investment income and annualized yields on average assets for each of the components of the Companys investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) FIXED MATURITIES Yield(2)............................................. 6.02% 6.53% 6.91% Investment income(3)................................. $ 10,424 $ 9,015 $ 8,480 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ (868) $ 71 $ (398) Ending assets(3)..................................... $230,875 $176,377 $167,382 MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER LOANS Yield(2)............................................. 6.81% 6.99% 7.49% Investment income(4)................................. $ 2,236 $ 1,951 $ 1,902 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 17 $ (47) $ (56) Ending assets........................................ $ 37,190 $ 32,406 $ 26,249 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES(5) Yield(2)............................................. 10.59% 11.69% 10.88% Investment income.................................... $ 467 $ 515 $ 513 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 2,139 $ 162 $ 440 Ending assets........................................ $ 4,665 $ 4,233 $ 4,677 POLICY LOANS Yield(2)............................................. 6.00% 6.15% 6.40% Investment income.................................... $ 572 $ 541 $ 554 Ending assets........................................ $ 9,981 $ 8,899 $ 8,750 EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS Yield(2)............................................. 12.44% 9.96% 3.03% Investment income.................................... $ 774 $ 404 $ 111 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ 159 $ 208 $ (43) Ending assets........................................ $ 7,614 $ 5,095 $ 4,183 CASH AND SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Yield(2)............................................. 3.66% 3.00% 2.45% Investment income.................................... $ 362 $ 153 $ 160 Net investment gains (losses)........................ $ (2) $ (1) $ 1 Ending assets........................................ $ 7,324 $ 6,710 $ 5,483 OTHER INVESTED ASSETS(6) Yield(2)............................................. 8.96% 6.55% 9.65% Investment income.................................... $ 570 $ 290 $ 324 Net investment gains (losses)(7)..................... $ 502 $ (149) $ (159) Ending assets........................................ $ 8,078 $ 5,295 $ 4,998 123 DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) TOTAL INVESTMENTS Gross investment income yield(2)..................... 6.35% 6.69% 6.88% Investment fees and expenses yield................... (0.14)% (0.14)% (0.16)% NET INVESTMENT INCOME YIELD.......................... 6.21% 6.55% 6.72% Gross investment income.............................. $ 15,405 $ 12,869 $ 12,044 Investment fees and expenses......................... $ (339) $ (260) $ (276) NET INVESTMENT INCOME(1)(5)(6)(7).................... $ 15,066 $ 12,609 $ 11,768 Ending assets(1)..................................... $305,727 $239,015 $221,722 Net investment gains (losses)(1)(5)(6)(7)............ $ 1,947 $ 244 $ (215) (1) Included in ending assets, investment income and investment gains (losses) is $7,102 million, $213 million and $8 million, respectively, related to the consolidation of separate accounts under SOP 03 1 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Included in ending assets, investment income and investment gains (losses) is $2,139 million, $86 million and $25 million, respectively, related to the consolidation of separate accounts under SOP 03 1 for the year ended December 31, 2004. (2) Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses), and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude collateral associated with the Companys securities lending program. (3) Fixed maturities include $825 million in ending assets and $14 million in investment income relating to trading securities for the year ended December 31, 2005. The annualized yield on trading securities was 2.74% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company did not have any trading securities during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. (4) Investment income from mortgage and consumer loans includes prepayment fees. (5) Real estate and real estate joint venture income includes amounts classified as discontinued operations of $58 million, $169 million and $212 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Net investment gains (losses) include $2,125 million, $146 million and $420 million of gains classified as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (6) Investment income from other invested assets includes scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 of $99 million, $51 million and $84 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These amounts are excluded from net investment gains (losses). Additionally, excluded from net investment gains (losses) for year ended December 31, 2005 is ($13) million related to revaluation losses on derivatives used to hedge interest rate and currency risk on policyholder account balances that do not qualify for hedge accounting. (7) Included in net investment gains (losses) from other invested assets for the year ended December 31, 2004 is a charge of $26 million related to a funds withheld reinsurance treaty that was converted to a coinsurance agreement. This amount is classified in net investment income in the consolidated statements of income. 124 FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE Fixed maturities consist principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 75.2% and 73.8% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, public fixed maturities represented $200,177 million, or 87.0%, and $154,439 million, or 87.6%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed maturities represented $29,873 million, or 13.0%, and $21,938 million, or 12.4%, of total fixed maturities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories called "NAIC designations." The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys Investors Services ("Moodys"), or rated "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors ("S&P") and Fitch Ratings Insurance Group ("Fitch")), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or rated "BB+" or lower by S&P and Fitch). The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturities by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations designation and the equivalent ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 COST OR COST OR AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF NAIC RATING RATING AGENCY DESIGNATION (1) COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL COST FAIR VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) 1 Aaa/Aa/A................... $161,256 $165,577 72.0% $112,702 $118,410 67.1% 2 Baa........................ 47,712 49,124 21.3 42,165 45,311 25.7 3 Ba......................... 8,794 9,142 4.0 6,907 7,500 4.2 4 B.......................... 5,666 5,710 2.5 4,081 4,397 2.5 5 Caa and lower.............. 287 290 0.1 329 366 0.2 6 In or near default......... 18 15 101 90 0.1 Subtotal................... 223,733 229,858 99.9 166,285 176,074 99.8 Redeemable preferred stock.. 193 192 0.1 326 303 0.2 Total fixed maturities..... $223,926 $230,050 100.0% $166,611 $176,377 100.0% (1) Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moodys, S&P and Fitch at December 31, 2005 and the lower of the applicable ratings between Moodys and S&P at December 31, 2004. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, the Company incorporated Fitch into its rating agency designations to be consistent with the Lehman Brothers ratings convention. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating is used. 125 The following table shows the cost or amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturities, by contractual maturity dates (excluding scheduled sinking funds) at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 COST OR COST OR AMORTIZED ESTIMATED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE COST FAIR VALUE (IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less.................... $ 7,083 $ 7,124 $ 6,749 $ 6,844 Due after one year through five years...... 36,100 36,557 29,846 31,164 Due after five years through ten years..... 45,303 46,256 33,531 35,996 Due after ten years........................ 58,667 63,404 41,593 46,463 Subtotal................................. 147,153 153,341 111,719 120,467 Mortgage backed, commercial mortgage backed and other asset backed securities........ 76,580 76,517 54,566 55,607 Subtotal................................. 223,733 229,858 166,285 176,074 Redeemable preferred stock................. 193 192 326 303 Total fixed maturities................... $223,926 $230,050 $166,611 $176,377 Bonds not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options. The following tables set forth the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturities by sector and equity securities, the percentage of the total fixed maturities holdings that each sector represents and the percentage of the total equity securities at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 COST OR GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) U.S. corporate securities.............. $ 72,339 $2,814 $ 835 $ 74,318 32.3% Residential mortgage backed securities........................... 47,365 353 472 47,246 20.5 Foreign corporate securities........... 33,578 1,842 439 34,981 15.2 U.S. treasury/agency securities........ 25,643 1,401 86 26,958 11.7 Commercial mortgage backed securities........................... 17,682 223 207 17,698 7.7 Asset backed securities................ 11,533 91 51 11,573 5.0 Foreign government securities.......... 10,080 1,401 35 11,446 5.0 State and political subdivision securities........................... 4,601 185 36 4,750 2.1 Other fixed maturity securities........ 912 17 41 888 0.4 Total bonds.......................... 223,733 8,327 2,202 229,858 99.9 Redeemable preferred stocks............ 193 2 3 192 0.1 Total fixed maturities............ $223,926 $8,329 $2,205 $230,050 100.0% Common stocks.......................... $ 2,004 $ 250 $ 30 $ 2,224 66.6% Non redeemable preferred stocks........ 1,080 45 11 1,114 33.4 Total equity securities(1)........ $ 3,084 $ 295 $ 41 $ 3,338 100.0% 126 DECEMBER 31, 2004 COST OR GROSS UNREALIZED AMORTIZED ESTIMATED % OF COST GAIN LOSS FAIR VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) U.S. corporate securities............... $ 58,022 $ 3,870 $172 $ 61,720 34.9% Residential mortgage backed securities............................ 31,683 612 65 32,230 18.3 Foreign corporate securities............ 24,972 2,582 85 27,469 15.6 U.S. treasury/agency securities......... 16,534 1,314 22 17,826 10.1 Commercial mortgage backed securities... 12,099 440 38 12,501 7.1 Asset backed securities................. 10,784 125 33 10,876 6.2 Foreign government securities........... 7,621 973 26 8,568 4.8 State and political subdivision securities............................ 3,683 220 4 3,899 2.2 Other fixed maturity securities......... 887 131 33 985 0.6 Total bonds........................ 166,285 10,267 478 176,074 99.8 Redeemable preferred stocks............. 326 23 303 0.2 Total fixed maturities................ $166,611 $10,267 $501 $176,377 100.0% Common stocks........................... $ 1,412 $ 244 $ 5 $ 1,651 75.5% Non redeemable preferred stocks......... 501 39 3 537 24.5 Total equity securities(1)............ $ 1,913 $ 283 $ 8 $ 2,188 100.0% (1) Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities include private equity securities with an estimated fair value of $472 million and $332 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Fixed Maturity and Equity Security Impairment. The Company classifies all of its fixed maturities and equity securities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income, except for non marketable private equities, which are generally carried at cost. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described in " Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Investments," about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. The Companys review of its fixed maturities and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment, and often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturities and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Impairments of fixed maturities and equity securities were $64 million, $102 million and $355 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Companys three 127 largest impairments totaled $40 million, $53 million and $125 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The circumstances that gave rise to these impairments were either financial restructurings or bankruptcy filings. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company sold or disposed of fixed maturities and equity securities at a loss that had a fair value of $93,872 million, $29,939 million and $21,984 million, respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed maturities and equity securities were $1,391 million, $516 million and $500 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized losses and number of securities for fixed maturities and equity securities, at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for: DECEMBER 31, 2005 COST OR AMORTIZED GROSS UNREALIZED NUMBER OF COST LOSSES SECURITIES LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR 20% MORE 20% MORE 20% MORE (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT NUMBER OF SECURITIES) Less than six months............ $ 92,512 $213 $1,707 $51 11,441 308 Six months or greater but less than nine months.............. 3,704 5 108 2 456 7 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months............ 5,006 133 573 2 Twelve months or greater........ 7,555 23 240 5 924 8 Total......................... $108,777 $241 $2,188 $58 13,394 325 DECEMBER 31, 2004 COST OR AMORTIZED GROSS UNREALIZED NUMBER OF COST LOSSES SECURITIES LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR LESS THAN 20% OR 20% MORE 20% MORE 20% MORE (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT NUMBER OF SECURITIES) Less than six months............ $27,175 $ 79 $246 $18 3,186 117 Six months or greater but less than nine months.............. 8,477 9 111 2 687 5 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months............ 1,595 19 33 4 206 5 Twelve months or greater........ 2,798 19 80 15 395 7 Total......................... $40,045 $126 $470 $39 4,474 134 The gross unrealized loss related to the Companys fixed maturities and equity securities at December 31, 2005 was $2,246 million. These securities are concentrated by sector in U.S. corporates (37%); residential mortgage backed (21%); and foreign corporates (20%); and are concentrated by industry in mortgage backed (30%); industrial (22%); and finance (11%) (calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non investment grade securities represent 5% of the $106,772 million fair value and 8% of the $2,246 million gross unrealized loss. The Company held one fixed maturity with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2005 greater than $10 million. This security represented less than 1% of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturities and equity securities. 128 Corporate Fixed Maturities. The table below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed maturity holdings at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) Industrial....................................... $ 41,322 37.8% $35,785 40.1% Foreign(1)....................................... 34,981 32.0 27,469 30.8 Finance.......................................... 19,189 17.5 14,481 16.3 Utility.......................................... 12,633 11.6 10,800 12.1 Other............................................ 1,174 1.1 654 0.7 Total.......................................... $109,299 100.0% $89,189 100.0% (1) Includes U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors, and other foreign investments. The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Companys combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the greatest exposure totaled $6,215 million and $4,967 million, respectively, each less than 3% of the Companys total invested assets at such dates. The exposure to the largest single issuer of corporate fixed maturities held at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $943 million and $631 million, respectively. The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign currency risk in its corporate fixed maturity portfolio. In the Companys international insurance operations, both its assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. Structured Securities. The following table shows the types of structured securities the Company held at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 ESTIMATED % OF ESTIMATED % OF FAIR VALUE TOTAL FAIR VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) Residential mortgage backed securities: Collateralized mortgage obligations............ $29,679 38.8% $19,752 35.5% Pass through securities........................ 17,567 23.0 12,478 22.4 Total residential mortgage backed securities..... 47,246 61.8 32,230 57.9 Commercial mortgage backed securities............ 17,698 23.1 12,501 22.5 Asset backed securities.......................... 11,573 15.1 10,876 19.6 Total....................................... $76,517 100.0% $55,607 100.0% The majority of the residential mortgage backed securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2005, $46,304 million, or 98.0%, of the residential mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. At December 31, 2004, $31,768 million, or 98.6%, of the residential mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P. At December 31, 2005, $13,272 million, or 75%, of the commercial mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. At December 31, 2004, $8,750 million, or 70.0%, of the commercial mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P. The Companys asset backed securities are diversified both by sector and by issuer. Home equity loan and credit card receivables, accounting for about 31% and 26% of the total holdings, respectively, constitute the largest exposures in the Companys asset backed securities portfolio. At December 31, 2005, $6,084 129 million, or 52.6%, of total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. At December 31, 2004, $6,775 million, or 62.3%, of the total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys or S&P. Structured Investment Transactions. The Company participates in structured investment transactions, primarily asset securitizations and structured notes. These transactions enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio principally by generating management fee income on asset securitizations and by providing equity based returns on debt securities through structured notes and similar instruments. The Company sponsors financial asset securitizations of high yield debt securities, investment grade bonds and structured finance securities and also is the collateral manager and a beneficial interest holder in such transactions. As the collateral manager, the Company earns management fees on the outstanding securitized asset balance, which are recorded in income as earned. When the Company transfers assets to bankruptcy remote SPEs and surrenders control over the transferred assets, the transaction is accounted for as a sale. Gains or losses on securitizations are determined with reference to the carrying amount of the financial assets transferred, which is allocated to the assets sold and the beneficial interests retained based on relative fair values at the date of transfer. Beneficial interests in securitizations are carried at fair value in fixed maturities. Income on these beneficial interests is recognized using the prospective method. The SPEs used to securitize assets are not consolidated by the Company because the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities. The Company purchases or receives beneficial interests in SPEs, which generally acquire financial assets, including corporate equities, debt securities and purchased options. The Company has not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the SPEs and the Companys exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company uses the beneficial interests as part of its risk management strategy, including asset liability management. These SPEs are not consolidated by the Company because the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities. These beneficial interests are generally structured notes, which are included in fixed maturities, and their income is recognized using the retrospective interest method or the level yield method, as appropriate. Impairments of these beneficial interests are included in net investment gains (losses). The Company invests in structured notes and similar type instruments, which generally provide equity based returns on debt securities. The carrying value of such investments was approximately $362 million and $666 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The related net investment income recognized was $28 million, $45 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. TRADING SECURITIES During 2005, the Company established a trading securities portfolio to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities. Trading securities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. Net investment income for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes $37 million of gains (losses) on securities classified as trading. Of this amount, $42 million relates to net gains (losses) recognized on trading securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2005. The remaining ($5) million for the year ended December 31, 2005 relates to changes in fair value on trading securities held at December 31, 2005. The Company did not have any trading securities during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Travelers investment in Tribeca Citigroup Investments Ltd. ("Tribeca"). Tribeca is a feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced risk adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign equities and equity related securities utilizing such strategies as convertible securities arbitrage. MetLife is the majority owner of the feeder fund and consolidates the fund within its consolidated financial statements. Approximately $452 million of Tribecas investments are reported as trading securities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements with changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. 130 MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER LOANS The Companys mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and consumer loans comprised 12.2% and 13.6% of the Companys total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances. The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys mortgage and consumer loans by type at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) Commercial mortgage loans.......................... $28,022 75.4% $24,990 77.1% Agricultural mortgage loans........................ 7,700 20.7 5,907 18.2 Consumer loans..................................... 1,468 3.9 1,509 4.7 Total............................................ $37,190 100.0% $32,406 100.0% Commercial Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. The following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) REGION Pacific............................................ $ 6,818 24.3% $ 6,075 24.3% South Atlantic..................................... 6,093 21.8 5,696 22.8 Middle Atlantic.................................... 4,689 16.7 4,057 16.2 East North Central................................. 3,078 11.0 2,550 10.2 West South Central................................. 2,069 7.4 2,024 8.1 New England........................................ 1,295 4.6 1,412 5.6 International...................................... 1,817 6.5 1,364 5.5 Mountain........................................... 861 3.1 778 3.1 West North Central................................. 825 2.9 667 2.7 East South Central................................. 381 1.4 268 1.1 Other.............................................. 96 0.3 99 0.4 Total............................................ $28,022 100.0% $24,990 100.0% PROPERTY TYPE Office............................................. $13,453 48.0% $11,500 46.0% Retail............................................. 6,398 22.8 5,698 22.8 Apartments......................................... 3,102 11.1 3,264 13.1 Industrial......................................... 2,656 9.5 2,499 10.0 Hotel.............................................. 1,355 4.8 1,245 5.0 Other.............................................. 1,058 3.8 784 3.1 Total............................................ $28,022 100.0% $24,990 100.0% 131 The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the Companys commercial mortgage loans at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL (IN MILLIONS) Due in one year or less............................ $ 1,052 3.8% $ 939 3.7% Due after one year through two years............... 2,138 7.6 1,800 7.2 Due after two years through three years............ 2,640 9.4 2,372 9.5 Due after three years through four years........... 4,037 14.4 2,943 11.8 Due after four years through five years............ 3,946 14.1 4,578 18.3 Due after five years............................... 14,209 50.7 12,358 49.5 Total............................................ $28,022 100.0% $24,990 100.0% Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness. The Company records valuation allowances for certain of the loans that it deems impaired. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans where a property or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future default, as well as for pools of loans with similar high risk characteristics where a property specific or market risk has not been identified. Loan specific valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the mortgage loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the value of the loans collateral or the loans market value if the loan is being sold. Valuation allowances for pools of loans are established based on property types and loan to value risk factors. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains (losses). 132 The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST (1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST (1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (IN MILLIONS) Performing........... $28,158 100% $147 0.5% $25,077 99.8% $128 0.5% Restructured......... % 55 0.2 18 32.7% Potentially delinquent......... 3 % 7 3 42.9% Delinquent or under foreclosure........ 8 % % Total.............. $28,169 100.0% $147 0.5% $25,139 100.0% $149 0.6% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for commercial mortgage loans for the: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $149 $122 $119 Additions................................................... 43 53 51 Deductions.................................................. (45) (26) (48) Balance, end of year........................................ $147 $149 $122 Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic region and product type. Approximately 67% of the $7,700 million of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2005 were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans is successfully renegotiated and remains outstanding to maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans. The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 % OF % OF AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED AMORTIZED % OF VALUATION AMORTIZED COST (1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST COST (1) TOTAL ALLOWANCE COST (IN MILLIONS) Performing........... $7,635 99.0% $ 8 0.1% $5,803 98.1% $4 0.1% Restructured......... 36 0.5 % 67 1.1 % Potentially delinquent......... 3 1 33.3% 4 0.1 1 25.0% Delinquent or under foreclosure........ 37 0.5 2 5.4% 40 0.7 2 5.0% Total.............. $7,711 100.0% $11 0.1% $5,914 100.0% $7 0.1% (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. 133 The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans for the: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 2004 2003 (IN MILLIONS) Balance, beginning of year.................................. $ 7 $ 6 $ 6 Additions................................................... 4 5 1 Deductions.................................................. (4) (1) Balance, end of year........................................ $11 $ 7 $ 6 Consumer Loans. Consumer loans consist of residential mortgages and auto loans. REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES The Companys real estate and real estate joint venture investments consist of commercial properties located primarily in the United States. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale was $4,665 million and $4,233 million, respectively, or 1.5% and 1.8%, of total cash and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint ventures is stated at the Companys equity in the real estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation allowances. The following table presents the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures, real estate held for sale and real estate acquired upon foreclosure at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF VALUE TOTAL VALUE TOTAL TYPE (IN MILLIONS) Real estate held for investment..................... $3,735 80.1% $2,687 63.5% Real estate joint ventures held for investment...... 926 19.8 386 9.1 Foreclosed real estate held for investment.......... 4 0.1 3 0.1 4,665 100.0 3,076 72.7 Real estate held for sale........................... 1,156 27.3 Foreclosed real estate held for sale................ 1 1,157 27.3 Total real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale......................... $4,665 100.0% $4,233 100.0% The Companys carrying value of real estate held for sale, including real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, in the amounts of $0 million and $1,157 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are net of valuation allowances of $0 million and $4 million, respectively, and net of impairments of $0 million and $12 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure. Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See " Investments Variable Interest Entities." In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively, resulting in gains, net of income taxes, of $431 million and $762 million, respectively. The gains are included in income from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. In connection with the sale 134 of the 200 Park Avenue property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage and is leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205. In 2004, the Company sold one of its real estate investments, Sears Tower, resulting in a gain of $85 million, net of income taxes. OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $4,276 million and $2,907 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor interest, has influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies, does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually no influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies. The Companys investments in other limited partnerships represented 1.4% and 1.2% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Some of the Companys investments in other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See " Investments Variable Interest Entities." OTHER INVESTED ASSETS The Companys other invested assets consist principally of leveraged leases and funds withheld at interest of $4,573 million and $3,916 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The leveraged leases are recorded net of non recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions, which are diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Other invested assets also includes derivative revaluation gains and the fair value of embedded derivatives related to funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts. Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms and may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio. The Companys other invested assets represented 2.6% and 2.2% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the Company enters into income generation and replication derivative transactions as permitted by its insurance subsidiaries Derivatives Use Plans approved by the applicable state insurance departments. 135 The table below provides a summary of the notional amount and current market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at: DECEMBER 31, 2005 DECEMBER 31, 2004 CURRENT MARKET CURRENT MARKET OR FAIR VALUE OR FAIR VALUE NOTIONAL NOTIONAL AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES AMOUNT ASSETS LIABILITIES (IN MILLIONS) Interest rate swaps........... $20,444 $ 653 $ 69 $12,681 $284 $ 22 Interest rate floors.......... 10,975 134 3,325 38 Interest rate caps............ 27,990 242 7,045 12 Financial futures............. 1,159 12 8 611 13 Foreign currency swaps........ 14,274 527 991 8,214 150 1,302 Foreign currency forwards..... 4,622 64 92 1,013 5 57 Options....................... 815 356 6 263 37 7 Financial forwards............ 2,452 13 4 326 Credit default swaps.......... 5,882 13 11 1,897 11 5 Synthetic GICs................ 5,477 5,869 Other......................... 250 9 450 1 1 Total....................... $94,340 $2,023 $1,181 $41,694 $538 $1,407 The above table does not include notional values for equity futures, equity financial forwards, and equity options. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned 3,305 and 776 equity futures contracts, respectively. Equity futures market values are included in financial futures in the preceding table. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned 213,000 and no equity financial forwards, respectively. Equity financial forwards market values are included in financial forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned 4,720,254 and 493,358 equity options, respectively. Equity options market values are included in options in the preceding table. The notional amount of $562 million, related to equity options for 2004 has been removed from the above table to conform with the 2005 presentation. Credit Risk. The Company may be exposed to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Companys derivative contracts is limited to the fair value at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Companys derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value at the reporting date. The Company manages its credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its derivative instruments. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $195 million. This unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $427 million, which is held in separate custodial accounts. Such collateral is included in other assets and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated 136 balance sheet. The Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2005, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged. As of December 31, 2005, the Company provided collateral of $4 million, which is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. The Company did not have any cash or other collateral related to derivative instruments at December 31, 2004. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005; and (ii) it holds significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated: DECEMBER 31, 2005 PRIMARY BENEFICIARY NOT PRIMARY BENEFICIARY MAXIMUM MAXIMUM TOTAL EXPOSURE TO TOTAL EXPOSURE TO ASSETS(1) LOSS(2) ASSETS(1) LOSS(2) (IN MILLIONS) Asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations.......... $ $ $ 3,728 $ 463 Real estate joint ventures(3).............. 304 114 246 19 Other limited partnerships(4).............. 48 35 15,760 2,109 Other investments(5)....................... 3,722 242 Total.................................... $352 $149 $23,456 $2,833 (1) The assets of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value at December 31, 2005. The assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and other investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such assets would have been reflected on the Companys balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity. (2) The maximum exposure to loss of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to the carrying amounts of participation or retained interests. In addition, the Company provides collateral management services for certain of these structures for which it collects a management fee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and other investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners. (3) Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other ventures which engage in the acquisition, development, management and disposal of real estate investments. (4) Other limited partnerships include partnerships established for the purpose of investing in real estate funds, public and private debt and equity securities, as well as limited partnerships established for the purpose of investing in low income housing that qualifies for federal tax credits. (5) Other investments include securities that are not asset backed securitizations or collateralized debt obligations. SECURITIES LENDING The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $32,068 million and $26,564 million and an estimated fair value of $32,954 million and $27,974 million were on loan under the program at December 31, 137 2005 and 2004, respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $33,893 million and $28,678 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Securities loaned transactions are accounted for as financing arrangements on the Companys consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows and the income and expenses associated with the program are reported in net investment income as investment income and investment expenses, respectively. Security collateral of $207 million and $17 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005 and 2004 on deposit from customers in connection with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. SEPARATE ACCOUNTS The Company had $127.9 billion and $86.8 billion held in its separate accounts, for which the Company generally does not bear investment risk, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company manages each separate accounts assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The Company establishes separate accounts on a single client and multi client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, on January 1, 2004, the Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Companys general account liabilities; (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of income. The Companys revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are combined on a line by line basis with the Companys general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Committees ("ALM Committees") and additional specialists at the business segment level. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risk. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. The Travelers acquisition has increased the Companys exposure to market risk. The Travelers acquisition has not changed managements processes for measuring, managing and monitoring market risk; however, some of those processes are utilizing interim manual reporting and estimation techniques while the Company integrates the operations acquired. During the second half of 2005, management restructured the portfolio of assets that were acquired, generally reducing the amount of market risk associated with the acquired block, in line with the Companys overall investment strategy. The acquisition also changed the 138 profile of the Companys foreign currency exchange rate risk, although management still deems the aggregate sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk to be immaterial. MARKET RISK EXPOSURES The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. The Company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, and prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Companys products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. Equity market prices. The Companys investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long term guarantees on equity performance. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. The Company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound. The Company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily exposed to the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, the Argentinean peso, the South Korean won, the Chilean peso, the Taiwanese dollar and the Japanese Yen. The Company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate risk management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; 139 developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the Holding Companys board of directors and various financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/liability management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Business Finance Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific ALM Committees. The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. Each of MetLifes business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. New York State Department of Insurance regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. 140 Hedging activities. To reduce interest rate risk, MetLifes risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. Such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. In 2004, MetLife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. RISK MEASUREMENT; SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2005 to re price its invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of MetLifes market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non trading invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: Fair values. The Company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Companys currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. Earnings and cash flows. MetLife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage backed securities; the re estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. 141 The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2005. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the Companys equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2005 is set forth in the table below. The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys portfolio, as of the period indicated was: DECEMBER 31, 2005 (IN MILLIONS) Non trading: Interest rate risk.......................................... $5,570 Equity price risk........................................... $ 556 Foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 728 Trading: Interest rate risk.......................................... $ 6 The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys non trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2005 by type of asset or liability. AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 ASSUMING A 10% INCREASE NOTIONAL IN THE YIELD AMOUNT FAIR VALUE CURVE. (IN MILLIONS) ASSETS Fixed maturities.......................................... $230,050 $(5,633) Equity securities......................................... 3,338 Mortgage and consumer loans............................... 37,820 (616) Policy loans.............................................. 9,981 (324) Short term investments.................................... 3,306 (18) Cash and cash equivalents................................. 4,018 Mortgage loan commitments................................. (4) (14) Total assets........................................... $(6,605) 142 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 ASSUMING A 10% INCREASE NOTIONAL IN THE YIELD AMOUNT FAIR VALUE CURVE. (IN MILLIONS) LIABILITIES Policyholder account balances............................. $107,083 $ 917 Short term debt........................................... 1,414 Long term debt............................................ 10,296 395 Junior subordinated debt securities underlying common equity units........................................... 2,098 23 Shares subject to mandatory redemption.................... 362 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions........................................... 34,515 Total liabilities...................................... $ 1,335 OTHER Derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) Interest rate swaps.................................... $20,444 $ 584 $ (76) Interest rate floors................................... 10,975 134 (39) Interest rate caps..................................... 27,990 242 101 Financial futures...................................... 1,159 4 (12) Foreign currency swaps................................. 14,274 (464) (227) Foreign currency forwards.............................. 4,622 (28) Options................................................ 815 350 Financial forwards..................................... 2,452 9 Credit default swaps................................... 5,882 2 Synthetic GICs......................................... 5,477 Other.................................................. 250 9 Total other.......................................... $ (253) NET CHANGE.................................................. $(5,570) This quantitative measure of risk has increased by $1,920 million, or 53%, at December 31, 2005, from $3,650 million at December 31, 2004. The primary reasons for the increase are growth in assets exposed to interest rate risk in increasing interest scenarios including fixed maturity instruments and interest rate floors, and the increase in the yield curve since December 31, 2004. Subsequent to the restructuring of assets to comply with MetLifes investment guidelines, the Travelers acquisition represents $702 million of the increase. Approximately $600 million of the increase is due to asset growth other than from the Travelers acquisition and approximately $200 million is due to the lengthening of the asset portfolio during 2005. The major contributor to the remainder of the change is movements in the yield curve. In addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the Company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. As of December 31, 2005, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the Companys liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $390 million. Management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the Company. 143 
 
