Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For purposes of this discussion, MetLife or the Company refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the Holding Company), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Metropolitan Life). Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the forward looking statement information included below, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements which constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect, intend and other similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the Company. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (iii) investment losses and defaults; (iv) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (v) catastrophe losses; (vi) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (vii) changes in accounting standards, practices and or policies; (viii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA) or goodwill; (ix) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the Companys products and establishing the liabilities for the Companys obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (x) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xi) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xii) downgrades in the Companys and its affiliates claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xiii) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the Companys products or services; (xiv) MetLife, Inc.s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (xv) deterioration in the experience of the closed block established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life; (xvi) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to the Companys international operations; (xvii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xviii) the Companys ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; and (xix) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. 58 Table of Contents Executive Summary MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into five operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home, International and Reinsurance, as well as Corporate & Other. The managements discussion and analysis which follows isolates, in order to be meaningful, the results of the Travelers acquisition in the period over period comparison as the Travelers acquisition was not included in the results of the Company until July 1, 2005. The Travelers amounts which have been isolated represent the results of the Travelers legal entities which have been acquired. These amounts represent the impact of the Travelers acquisition; however, as business currently transacted through the acquired Travelers legal entities is transitioned to legal entities already owned by the Company, some of which has already occurred, the identification of the Travelers legal entity business will not necessarily be indicative of the impact of the Travelers acquisition on the results of the Company. As a part of the Travelers acquisition, management realigned certain products and services within several of the Companys segments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, all prior period segment results have been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. Also in connection with the Travelers acquisition, management has utilized its economic capital model to evaluate the deployment of capital based upon the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Companys existing and newly acquired businesses and has adjusted such allocations based upon this model. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 The Company reported $6,159 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $4,651 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $317 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,191 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period. Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available for sale or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM Holdings, Inc. (SSRM) on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of P.T. Sejahtera (MetLife Indonesia) which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,552 million, or 95%, to $3,188 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,636 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to other real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Net investment losses increased by $817 million, net of income tax, to a loss of $877 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $60 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $177 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $640 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark to market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, 59 Table of Contents largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling. Dividends on the Holding Companys Series A and Series B preferred shares (Preferred Shares) issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005. The remainder of the increase of $350 million in net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period was primarily due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues attributable to continued business growth across all of the Companys operating segments. Also contributing to the increase was higher net investment income primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Favorable underwriting results for the year ended December 31, 2006 were partially offset by a decrease in net interest margins. These increases were partially offset by an increase in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense on debt, increased general spending, higher compensation and commission costs and higher expenses related to growth initiatives and information technology projects, partially offset by a reduction in Travelers integration expenses, principally corporate incentives. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 The Company reported $4,651 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $2,758 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $3.65 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $233 million to net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of Travelers, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,660 million in the 2005 period. The years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 include the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $71 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2005 and a benefit of $113 million, net of income tax, to the comparable 2004 period. Excluding the impact of these items, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,702 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior 2004 period. In 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, which, combined, resulted in a gain of $1,193 million, net of income tax. In addition, during 2005, the Company completed the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia and recognized gains of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In 2004, the Company completed the sale of the Sears Tower property resulting in a gain of $85 million, net of income tax. Accordingly, income from discontinued operations and, correspondingly, net income, increased by $1,370 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the 2004 period primarily as a result of the aforementioned sales. These increases were partially offset by an increase in net investment losses of $170 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the corresponding period in 2004. The acquisition of Travelers contributed a loss of $132 million, net of income tax, to this decrease. Excluding the impact of Travelers, net investment gains (losses) decreased by $38 million, net of income tax, in the 2005 period. This decrease is primarily due to losses on fixed maturity security sales resulting from continued portfolio repositioning in the 2005 period. Significantly offsetting these reductions is an increase in gains from the mark to market on derivatives in 2005. The derivative gains resulted from changes in the value of the dollar versus major foreign currencies, including the euro and pound sterling, and changes in U.S. interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in net income available to common shareholders during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the prior year is partially due to the decrease in net income available to common shareholders in the prior year of $86 million, net of income tax, as a result of a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in 60 Table of Contents 2004 recorded in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). In addition, during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Holding Company paid $63 million in dividends on the Preferred Shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers. The remaining increase in net income available to common shareholders of $347 million is primarily due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues primarily from continued sales growth across most of the Companys business segments, as well as the positive impact of the U.S. financial markets on policy fees. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. In addition, continued strong investment spreads are largely due to higher than expected net investment income from corporate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Partially offsetting these increases is a rise in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, integration costs, corporate incentive expenses, non deferrable volume related expenses, corporate support expenses and DAC amortization. Acquisitions and Dispositions On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of MetLife Indonesia to a third party, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $10 million, net of income tax. As a result of this sale, the Company recognized income (loss) from discontinued operations of $5 million and ($9) million, net of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company reclassified the operations of MetLife Indonesia into discontinued operations for all years presented. On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, which is primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and not for profit markets, for $56 million, of which $2 million was allocated to goodwill and $54 million to other identifiable intangibles, specifically the value of customer relationships acquired, which has a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. CitiStreet Associates was integrated with MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, which is dedicated to provide retirement plans and financial services to the same markets. On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), and substantially all of Citigroups international insurance businesses (collectively, Travelers) for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers operations were included in the Companys financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Companys core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Companys presence in both the retirement & savings domestic and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry. The initial consideration paid by the Holding Company for the acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Holding Companys common stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and $100 million in other transaction costs. Additional consideration of $115 million was paid by the Holding Company to Citigroup in 2006 as a result of the finalization by both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the provisions of the acquisition agreement. In addition to cash on hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock, debt securities, common equity units and preferred stock. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources. On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of $157 million, net of income tax, comprised of a realized gain of $165 million, net of income tax, and an operating expense related to a lease abandonment of $8 million, net of income tax. Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive additional payments based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife related business. Also under the terms of such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive additional consideration for the retention of certain customers for a specific period in 2005. Upon 61 Table of Contents finalization of the computation, the Company received payments of $30 million, net of income tax, in the second quarter of 2006 and $12 million, net of income tax, in the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the retention of these specific customer accounts. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable. The Company reported the operations of SSRM in discontinued operations. Additionally, the sale of SSRM resulted in the elimination of the Companys Asset Management segment. The remaining asset management business, which is insignificant, is reported in Corporate & Other. The Companys discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included expenses of $6 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM. Industry Trends The Companys segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the industry. Financial Environment. The level of long term interest rates and the shape of the yield curve can have a negative impact on the demand for and the profitability of spread based products such as fixed annuities, guaranteed interest contracts (GICs) and universal life insurance. A flat or inverted yield curve and low long term interest rates will be a concern until new money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall life insurer investment portfolio yields. Equity market performance can also impact the profitability of life insurers, as product demand and fee revenue from variable annuities and fee revenue from pension products tied to separate account balances often reflect equity market performance. Steady Economy. A steady economy provides improving demand for group insurance and retirement & savings type products. Group insurance premium growth, with respect to life and disability products, for example, is closely tied to employers total payroll growth. Additionally, the potential market for these products is expanded by new business creation. Bond portfolio credit losses continue close to low historical levels due to the steady economy. Demographics. In the coming decade, a key driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation and needs of the retiring Baby Boomers. As a result of increasing longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping the Baby Boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income represents an opportunity for the life insurance industry. Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby Boomers rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for income protection. The Company believes that, among life insurers, those with strong brands, high financial strength ratings and broad distribution, are best positioned to capitalize on the opportunity to offer income protection products to Baby Boomers. Moreover, the life insurance industrys products and the needs they are designed to address are complex. The Company believes that individuals approaching retirement age will need to seek information to plan for and manage their retirements and that, in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility for their benefit options and retirement planning, they will need information about their possible individual needs. One of the challenges for the life insurance industry will be the delivery of this information in a cost effective manner. Competitive Pressures. The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industrys products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. 62 Table of Contents Regulatory Changes. The life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. Pension Plans. On August 17, 2006, President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) into law. This act is considered to be the most sweeping pension legislation since the adoption of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) on September 2, 1974. The provisions of the PPA may have a significant impact on demand for pension, retirement savings, and lifestyle protection products in both the institutional and retail markets. This legislation, while not immediate, may have a positive impact on the life insurance and financial services industries in the future. Impact of Hurricanes On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. MetLifes cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Katrina were $333 million and $335 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Companys homeowners business. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company recognized total net losses, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments related to the catastrophe as follows: Auto & Home Institutional Total Company Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 (In millions) Net ultimate losses at January 1, $ 120 $ $ 14 $ $ 134 $ Total net losses recognized (2 ) 120 14 (2 ) 134 Net ultimate losses at December 31, $ 118 $ 120 $ 14 $ 14 $ 132 $ 134 On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across the state of Florida. MetLifes cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Wilma were $64 million and $57 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Companys homeowners and automobile businesses. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Companys Auto & Home segment recognized total losses, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables, of $29 million and $32 million, respectively, related to Hurricane Wilma. Additional hurricane related losses may be recorded in future periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent upon the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition, lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in Louisiana and Mississippi challenging denial of claims for damages caused to property during Hurricane Katrina. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company (MPC) is a named party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases in which MPC is not a party may affect interpretation of its policies. MPC intends to vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings could result in an increase in the Companys hurricane related claim exposure and losses. Based on information known by management, it does not believe that additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and 63 Table of Contents assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: i) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; ii) investment impairments; iii) the recognition of income on certain investments; iv) application of the consolidation rules to certain investments; v) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; vi) the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; vii) the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; viii) the liability for future policyholder benefits; ix) accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; x) accounting for reinsurance transactions; xi) accounting for employee benefit plans; and xii) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters. The application of purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical estimates. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Investments The Companys principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships, short term investments, and other invested assets. The Companys investments are exposed to three primary sources of risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those associated with the determination of fair values, the recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain investments, and the potential consolidation of previously unconsolidated subsidiaries. The Companys investments in fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available for sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. The fair values for public fixed maturity securities and public equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as for private fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. One of the significant estimates related to available for sale securities is the evaluation of investments for other than temporary impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three 64 Table of Contents categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; vi) the Companys ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on asset backed securities; and viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary in the period in which the determination is made. These impairments are included within net investment gains (losses) and the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities is reduced accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. loan backed securities including mortgage backed and asset backed securities, certain investment transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned. Additionally, when the Company enters into certain structured investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 46(r), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of ARB No. 51, it may be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entitys expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party. The use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the determination of the fair value of investments, the timing and amount of impairments, the recognition of income, or consolidation of investments may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements. 65 Table of Contents Derivative Financial Instruments The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. The Company uses derivatives primarily to manage various risks. The risks being managed are variability in cash flows or changes in fair values related to financial instruments and currency exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign operations. To a lesser extent, the Company also uses credit derivatives to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance policies and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. Fair value of derivatives is determined by quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models. The determination of fair values, when quoted market values are not available, is based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Values can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, other financial indices and credit ratings. Essential to the analysis of the fair value is a risk of counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated derivative fair value amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income. Also, fluctuations in the fair value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting may result in significant volatility in net income. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported. Measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. Additionally, there is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation have not been identified and reported at fair value in the consolidated financial statements and that their related changes in fair value could materially affect reported net income. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. The costs that vary with and relate to the production of new business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency and policy issue expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that reflects the estimated fair value of in force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the business in force at the acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for reporting purposes. DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term or reinsurance treaty. DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment type contracts are amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described below. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non participating and non dividend paying traditional contracts (term insurance, non participating whole life insurance, non medical health insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire premium paying period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement 66 Table of Contents of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating, dividend paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business in force, which impacts expected future gross margins. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in force, which impacts expected future gross profits. Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in force account balances on such contracts each reporting period. Returns that are higher than the Companys long term expectation produce higher account balances, which increases the Companys future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than the Companys long term expectation. The Companys practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its long term expectation changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA balances of approximately $70 million for this factor. The Company also reviews periodically other long term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the 67 Table of Contents calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. Over the past two years, the Companys most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA have been updated due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on contracts included within the Individual Business segment. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. The following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA within the Companys Individual segment of changing each of the respective assumptions during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Investment return $ 192 $ (26 ) Expense 45 11 In force/Persistency (7 ) (33 ) Policyholder dividends and other (39 ) (11 ) Total $ 191 $ (59 ) As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, DAC and VOBA for the Individual segment were $14.0 billion and $13.5 billion, respectively, and for the total Company were $20.8 billion and $19.7 billion, respectively. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business that is one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within Corporate & Other is allocated to reporting units within the Companys business segments. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market multiple, a discounted cash flow model, or a cost approach. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount rate. Liability for Future Policy Benefits The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities and non medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a 68 Table of Contents block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Liabilities for future policy benefits for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Other policyholder funds include claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on life and non medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs. With respect to property and casualty insurance, such unpaid claims are reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life policies are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The Company offers certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefit riders. These include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) riders and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (GMAB) riders. GMWB and GMAB riders are embedded derivatives, which are measured at fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in fair value reported in net investment gains (losses). The fair values of GMWB and GMAB riders are calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets, causing an increase in the liability for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income. The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. Income Taxes Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The Companys accounting for income taxes represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant 69 Table of Contents judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following: (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years; and (iv) tax planning strategies. The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events such as changes in tax legislation could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur. Reinsurance The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance for its life and property and casualty insurance products. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. Employee Benefit Plans Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the Subsidiaries) sponsor pension and other postretirement plans covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in consultation with its independent consulting actuarial firm, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. Litigation Contingencies The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys consolidated financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve 70 Table of Contents claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Economic Capital Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. As a part of the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk based capital (RBC) formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Companys businesses. 71 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Results The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Company for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 26,412 $ 24,860 $ 22,200 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 4,780 3,828 2,867 Net investment income 17,192 14,817 12,272 Other revenues 1,362 1,271 1,198 Net investment gains (losses) (1,350 ) (93 ) 175 Total revenues 48,396 44,683 38,712 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 26,431 25,506 22,662 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 5,246 3,925 2,997 Policyholder dividends 1,701 1,679 1,666 Other expenses 10,797 9,267 7,813 Total expenses 44,175 40,377 35,138 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 4,221 4,306 3,574 Provision for income tax 1,116 1,228 996 Income from continuing operations 3,105 3,078 2,578 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 3,188 1,636 266 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax 6,293 4,714 2,844 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax (86 ) Net income 6,293 4,714 2,758 Preferred stock dividends 134 63 Net income available to common shareholders $ 6,159 $ 4,651 $ 2,758 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 The Company Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $27 million, or 1%, to $3,105 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,078 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $317 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, income from continuing operations decreased by $290 million. Income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 included the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion. These items contributed a charge of $23 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2006. These items contributed a benefit of $48 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of these items and the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $219 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior 2005 period. 72 Table of Contents The following table provides the change in income from continuing operations by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above: $ Change % Change (In millions) Institutional $ (318 ) (145 )% Individual (68 ) (31 ) Corporate & Other (26 ) (12 ) International (25 ) (12 ) Auto & Home 192 88 Reinsurance 26 12 Total change, net of income tax $ (219 ) (100 )% The Institutional segments income from continuing operations decreased primarily due to an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, an increase in operating expenses, which included a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, partially offset by the impact of integration costs in the prior year and favorable underwriting results. The Individual segments income from continuing operations decreased as a result of an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, higher expenses and annuity benefits, as well as increases in interest credited to policyholder account balances (PABs) and policyholder dividends. These decreases were partially offset by increased fee income related to the growth in separate account products, favorable underwriting results in life products, lower DAC amortization and a decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation. Income from continuing operations in Corporate & Other decreased primarily due to higher investment losses, higher interest expense on debt, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits and legal related costs, partially offset by an increase in tax benefits, an increase in net investment income, lower integration costs and an increase in other revenues. The decrease in income from continuing operations in the International segment was primarily the result of a decrease in Taiwan due to a loss recognition adjustment and a restructuring charge, partially offset by reserve refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system. Income from continuing operations decreased in Canada primarily due to the realignment of economic capital in the prior year. Income from continuing operations in Mexico decreased primarily due to an increase in amortization of DAC, higher operating expenses, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various one time other revenue items in both periods, as well as an increase in income tax expense due to a tax benefit realized in the prior year. These decreases in Mexico were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in unrealized investment gains on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in the current year from the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, and the unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent liabilities. In addition, a decrease in Brazil was primarily due to an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to an increase in future policyholder benefit liabilities on specific blocks of business and an increase in litigation liabilities, as well as adverse claim experience in the current year. The home office recorded higher infrastructure expenditures in support of segment growth, as well as a contingent tax liability. Results of the Companys investment in Japan decreased primarily due to variability in the hedging program. In addition, expenses related to the Companys start up operations in Ireland reduced income from continuing operations. A valuation allowance was established against the deferred tax benefit resulting from the Ireland losses. Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing operations were increases in Chile and the United Kingdom due to continued growth of the in force business, as well as an increase in Australia due to reserve strengthening on a block of business in the prior year. South Koreas income from continuing operations increased due to growth in the in force business and the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. Higher net investment income resulting from capital 73 Table of Contents contributions, the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain contingent liabilities, the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established, and an increase in the prior year period of a deferred income tax valuation allowance, as well as business growth, increased income from continuing operations in Argentina. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting the decreases in income from continuing operations was an increase in the Auto & Home segment primarily due to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina, favorable development of prior year loss reserves, improvement in non catastrophe loss experience and a reduction in loss adjustment expenses. These increases were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, in the current year period, and decreases in net earned premiums, other revenues, and net investment income, as well as an increase in other expenses. Income from continuing operations in the Reinsurance segment increased primarily due to added business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations, an increase in net investment income due to growth in the invested asset base and an increase in other revenues. These items were partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience, an increase in liabilities associated with Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporateds (RGA) Argentine pension business in the prior period and an increase in other expenses, primarily related to expenses associated with DAC, interest expense, minority interest expense and equity compensation costs. Revenues and Expenses Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $2,595 million, or 9%, to $32,554 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $29,959 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $946 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $1,649 million. The following table provides the change in premiums, fees and other revenues by segment, excluding Travelers: $ Change % Change (In millions) Reinsurance $ 487 30 % International 469 28 Institutional 458 28 Individual 229 14 Corporate & Other 4 Auto & Home 2 Total change $ 1,649 100 % The growth in the Reinsurance segment was primarily attributable to premiums from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations. The growth in the International segment was primarily due to an increase in Mexicos premiums, fees and other revenues due to growth in the business and higher fees, partially offset by an adjustment for experience refunds on a block of business and various one time other revenue items in both years. In addition, South Koreas premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to business growth, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, Brazils premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to business growth and higher bancassurance business, as well as an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements. Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to higher institutional premiums through its bank distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales. In addition, business growth in the United Kingdom, 74 Table of Contents Argentina, Australia and Taiwan, as well as the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, contributed to the increase in the International segment. The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, accidental death & dismemberment (AD&D) products, as well as growth in the long term care (LTC) and individual disability insurance (IDI) businesses, all within the non medical health & other business. Additionally, growth in the group life business is attributable to the impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in the term life business. These increases in the non medical health & other and group life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the retirement & savings business. The decline in retirement & savings was primarily due to a decline in premiums from structured settlements predominantly due to lower sales, partially offset by an increase in master terminal funding premiums (MTF). The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher fee income from universal life and investment type products and an increase in premiums from other life products, partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and a decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block business as this business continues to run off. Net Investment Income Net investment income increased by $2,375 million, or 16%, to $17,192 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $14,817 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $1,473 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment income increased by $902 million of which management attributes $666 million to growth in the average asset base and $236 million to an increase in yields. This increase was primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Interest Margin Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs, decreased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits, and the amount credited to PABs for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Net investment losses increased by $1,257 million to a loss of $1,350 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $93 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $272 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $985 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark to market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling. Underwriting Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related 75 Table of Contents liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results were favorable within the life products in the Individual segment, as well as in the Reinsurance segment, and in the group life and non medical health & other products in the Institutional segment. Retirement & savings underwriting results were mixed across several products in the Institutional segment. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Underwriting results in the International segment increased commensurate with the growth in the business for most countries with the exception of Brazil which experienced unfavorable claim experience and Argentina which experienced improved claim experience. Other Expenses Other expenses increased by $1,530 million, or 17%, to $10,797 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $9,267 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $612 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, other expenses increased by $918 million. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes a $35 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation. The year ended December 31, 2005 included a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000. Excluding these items and the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased by $855 million from the comparable 2005 period. The following table provides the change in other expenses by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above: $ Change % Change (In millions) International $ 330 39 % Corporate & Other 287 33 Reinsurance 236 28 Institutional 79 9 Auto & Home 17 2 Individual (94 ) (11 ) Total change $ 855 100 % The International segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Taiwans other expenses increased due to an increase in amortization of DAC, due to a loss recognition adjustment, refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system and a restructuring charge. Mexicos other expenses increased due to an increase in commissions commensurate with the revenue growth, higher DAC amortization, higher expenses related to growth initiatives and additional expenses associated with the Mexican pension business, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of contingent liabilities that were established in the prior year related to potential employment matters and which were eliminated in the current year. South Koreas other expenses increased due to an increase in DAC amortization and general expenses, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. In addition, Brazils other expenses increased due to an increase in litigation liabilities. Other expenses associated with the home office increased due to an increase in expenditures for information technology projects, growth initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an increase in compensation expense. In addition, expenses were incurred related to the start up of operations in Ireland. Corporate & Other contributed to the year over year variance in other expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank, National Association (MetLife Bank or MetLife Bank, N.A.) and legal related costs, partially offset by lower integration costs. 76 Table of Contents The Reinsurance segment also contributed to the increase in other expenses primarily due to an increase in expenses associated with DAC, interest expense and minority interest, as well as an increase in compensation, including equity compensation expense and overhead related expenses. The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to an increase in non deferrable volume related expenses, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, all within the current year, partially offset by the reduction in Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals and an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. The Auto & Home segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. Partially offsetting the increases in other expenses was a decrease in the Individual segment. This decrease is primarily due to lower DAC amortization, partially offset by higher general spending in the current year, despite higher corporate incentives. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and postretirement liabilities, in both periods, increased other expenses in the current year period. Net Income Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $1,116 million, or 26% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,228 million, or 29%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $126 million during the first six months of 2006, income tax expense was $990 million, or 26%, of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,228 million, or 29%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. The 2006 effective tax rate also includes an adjustment of a benefit of $33 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2005, and the 2005 effective tax rate also includes a tax benefit of $27 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a benefit of $31 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2004. Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available for sale or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of MetLife Indonesia which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,552 million, or 95%, to $3,188 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,636 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Dividends on the Holding Companys Preferred Shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005. 77 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 The Company Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $500 million, or 19%, to $3,078 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,578 million in the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $233 million of income from continuing operations related to the acquisition of Travelers. Included in the Travelers results is a charge for the establishment of an excess mortality reserve related to group of specific policies. In connection with MetLife, Inc.s acquisition of Travelers, the Company has performed reviews of Travelers underwriting criteria in its effort to refine its estimated fair values for the purchase price allocation. As a result of these reviews and actuarial analyses, and to be consistent with MetLifes existing reserving methodologies, the Company has established an excess mortality reserve on a specific group of policies. This resulted in a charge of $20 million, net of income tax, to fourth quarter results. The Company completed its reviews and refined its estimate of the excess mortality reserve in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations increased by $267 million, or 10%. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 includes the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion below. These items contributed a benefit of $40 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2005 and a benefit of $96 million, net of income tax, to the comparable 2004 period. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $323 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior 2004 period. The Individual segment contributed $246 million, net of income tax, to the increase, as a result of interest rate spreads, increased fee income related to the growth in separate account products, favorable underwriting, a decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation, lower annuity net guaranteed benefit costs and lower DAC amortization. These increases were partially offset by lower net investment income, net investment losses and higher operating costs offset by revisions to certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liability estimates in the current year and write offs of certain assets in the prior year. The Institutional segment contributed $47 million, net of income tax, to this increase primarily due to favorable interest spreads, partially offset by a decrease in net investment gains, an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain LTC products in 2005, unfavorable underwriting and an increase in other expenses. The Auto & Home segment contributed $16 million, net of income tax, to the 2005 increase primarily due to improvements in the development of prior year claims, the non catastrophe combined ratio, and losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan, as well as an increase in net investment income and earned premium. These increases in the Auto & Home segment were partially offset by an increase in catastrophes as a result of the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and an increase in other expenses. The International segment contributed $9 million, net of income tax, primarily due to business growth in South Korea, Chile and Mexico. These increases in the International segment were partially offset by an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment gains (losses) on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, an increase in expenses for start up costs and contingency liabilities in Mexico, as well as a decrease in Canada primarily due to a realignment of economic capital offset by the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year and higher oversight and infrastructure expenditures in support of the segment growth. Corporate & Other contributed $4 million, net of income tax, to this increase primarily due to an increase in net investment income, higher net investment gains, a decrease in corporate support expenses and an increase in tax benefits, partially offset by higher interest expense on debt, integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers, higher interest credited on bank holder deposits and legal related liabilities. The Reinsurance segment contributed $1 million, net of income tax, to this increase primarily due to premium growth and higher net investment income, partially offset by unfavorable mortality as a result of higher claim levels in the U.S. and the United Kingdom and a reduction in net investment gains. Revenues and Expenses Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $3,694 million, or 14%, to $29,959 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $26,265 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $1,009 million of premium, fees and other revenues related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of 78 Table of Contents Travelers, premium, fees and other revenues increased by $2,685 million, or 10%. The Institutional segment contributed $1,266 million, or 47%, to the year over year increase. The Institutional segment increase is primarily due to sales growth and the acquisition of new business in the non medical health & other business, as well as improved sales and favorable persistency in group life and higher structured settlement sales and pension close outs in retirement & savings. The Reinsurance segment contributed $523 million, or 19%, to the Companys year over year increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. This growth is primarily attributable to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, as well as favorable exchange rate movements. The International segment contributed $452 million, or 17%, to the year over year increase primarily due to business growth through increased sales and renewal business in Mexico, South Korea, Brazil, and Taiwan, as well as changes in foreign currency rates. In addition, Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to the new bank distribution channel established in 2005. The Individual segment contributed $446 million, or 17%, to the year over year increase primarily due to higher fee income from variable annuity and universal life products, active marketing of income annuity products and growth in the business in traditional life products. The growth in traditional products more than offset the decline in premiums in the Companys closed block business as this business continues to run off. Corporate & Other contributed $37 million, or 1%, to the year over year increase, primarily due to intersegment eliminations. The increase in premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a decrease in the Auto & Home segment of $39 million, or 1%. This decrease is primarily attributable to reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums due to Hurricane Katrina. Interest Margin Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs, increased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits, and the amount credited to PABs for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Underwriting Underwriting results were favorable within the life products in the Individual and Institutional segments, while underwriting results were unfavorable in the Reinsurance segment and in the retirement & savings and non medical health & other products within the Institutional segment. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2005, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes and before the reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments due to Hurricane Katrina, decreased to 86.7% from 90.4% in the prior year period. Offsetting the improved non catastrophe ratios in the Auto & Home segment was an increase in catastrophes primarily due to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Underwriting results in the International segment increased commensurate with the growth in the business as discussed above. Other Expenses Other expenses increased by $1,454 million, or 19%, to $9,267 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $7,813 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $618 million of other expenses related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased by 79 Table of Contents $836 million, or 11%. The year ended December 31, 2005 includes a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000. The year ended December 31, 2004 reflects a $49 million reduction of a premium tax liability and a $22 million reduction of a liability for interest associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. These decreases were partially offset by a $50 million contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. Excluding the impact of these transactions, other expenses increased by $843 million, or 11%, from the comparable 2004 period. Corporate & Other contributed $412 million, or 49%, to the year over year variance primarily due to higher interest expense, integration costs associated with the Travelers acquisition, growth in interest credited to bank holder deposits at MetLife Bank and legal related liabilities, partially offset by a reduction in corporate support expenses. The Institutional segment contributed $178 million, or 21%, to the year over year variance primarily due to higher non deferrable volume related expenses associated with general business growth, corporate support expenses, higher expenses related to additional Travelers incentive accruals, as well as an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain LTC products in 2005. In addition, $174 million, or 21%, of this increase is primarily attributable to higher amortization of DAC, changes in foreign currency rates, business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above, a decrease in the payroll tax liability and an accrual for an early retirement program in the International segment. Other expenses in the International segment also increased due to higher consultant fees for growth initiative projects, an increase in compensation and incentive expenses, as well as higher costs for legal, marketing and other corporate allocated expenses. The Reinsurance segment also contributed $34 million, or 4%, to the increase in other expenses primarily due to an increase in the amortization of DAC. The Auto & Home segment contributed $33 million, or 4%, to this increase primarily due to increased information technology, advertising and incentive and other compensation costs. In addition, the Individual segment contributed $12 million, or 1%, to the year over year increase primarily due to higher corporate incentive expenses and general spending, partially offset by the revision of prior period estimates for certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liabilities, as well as certain asset write offs in the prior year and lower DAC amortization. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Net investment gains (losses) decreased by $268 million, or 153%, to a loss of $93 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from a net investment gain of $175 million for the comparable 2004 period. The current year includes $208 million of net investment losses related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, net investment gains (losses) decreased by $60 million, or 34%. This decrease is primarily due to losses on fixed maturity security sales resulting from continued portfolio repositioning in the 2005 period. Significantly offsetting these reductions is an increase in gains from the mark to market on derivatives in 2005. The derivative gains resulted from changes in the value of the dollar versus major foreign currencies, including the euro and pound sterling, and changes in U.S. interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net Income Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 is $1,228 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $996 million, or 28%, for the comparable 2004 period. The current period includes $80 million of income tax expense related to the acquisition of Travelers. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 is $1,148 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $996 million, or 28%, for the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. In addition, the 2005 effective tax rate reflects a tax benefit of $27 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a benefit of $31 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2004 had been made. The 2004 effective tax rate differs from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a decrease in the deferred tax valuation allowance to recognize the effect of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards in South Korea, and the contribution of appreciated stock to the MetLife Foundation. In addition, 80 Table of Contents the 2004 effective tax rate reflects an adjustment for the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Lifes and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999 of $91 million and an adjustment of a benefit of $9 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2003. Income from discontinued operations is comprised of the operations and the gain upon disposal from the sale of MetLife Indonesia on September 29, 2005 and SSRM on January 31, 2005, as well as net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company has classified as available for sale or has sold. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,370 million to $1,636 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $266 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, and the gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax, in the year ended December 31, 2005. Partially offsetting this increase is the gain on the sale of the Sears Tower property of $85 million, net of income tax, in the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an $86 million charge, net of income tax, for a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in accordance with SOP 03 1, which provides guidance on (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. This charge is primarily related to those long duration contract liabilities where the amount of the liability is indexed to the performance of a target portfolio of investment securities. In addition, during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Holding Company paid $63 million in dividends on its Preferred Shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers. 81 Table of Contents Institutional The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Institutional segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 11,867 $ 11,387 $ 10,037 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 775 772 711 Net investment income 7,267 5,943 4,566 Other revenues 685 653 654 Net investment gains (losses) (631 ) (10 ) 163 Total revenues 19,963 18,745 16,131 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 13,367 12,776 11,173 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 2,593 1,652 1,016 Policyholder dividends 1 Other expenses 2,314 2,229 1,972 Total expenses 18,274 16,658 14,161 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 1,689 2,087 1,970 Provision for income tax 563 699 671 Income from continuing operations 1,126 1,388 1,299 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 41 174 28 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax 1,167 1,562 1,327 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax (60 ) Net income $ 1,167 $ 1,562 $ 1,267 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Institutional Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased $262 million, or 19%, to $1,126 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,388 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $56 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which included a decline of $104 million, net of income tax, of net investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased $318 million, or 23%, from the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease was a decline of $300 million, net of income tax, in net investment gains (losses), as well as a decline of $18 million, net of income tax, resulting from an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers and the decline in net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations was flat when compared to the prior year period. A decrease in interest margins of $84 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period contributed to the decrease in income from continuing operations. Management attributes this decrease primarily to the group life and retirement & savings businesses of $60 million and $51 million, both net of income tax, respectively. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of $27 million, net of income tax, in the non medical health & other business. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs. Interest 82 Table of Contents earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholders benefits, and the amount credited to PABs for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. The year over year variance in income from continuing operations included charges recorded in other expenses of $17 million, net of income tax, associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, $16 million, net of income tax, due to costs associated with a previously announced regulatory settlement and $15 million, net of income tax, associated with non deferrable LTC commission expense. Partially offsetting these increases in operating expenses were benefits due to prior year charges of $28 million, net of income tax, as a result of the impact of Travelers integration costs and $14 million, net of income tax, related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing operations was an increase in underwriting results of $97 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to favorable results of $48 million, $38 million and $11 million, all net of income tax, in the group life, the non medical health & other businesses and the retirement & savings businesses, respectively. The results in group life were primarily due to favorable mortality results, predominantly in the term life business, which included a benefit from reserve refinements in the current year. Non medical health & others favorable underwriting results were primarily due to improvements in the IDI and dental businesses. The IDI results included certain reserve refinements in the prior year. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the AD&D and disability businesses. Disabilitys results include the benefit of prior and current year reserve refinements. Retirement & savings underwriting results were favorable with mixed underwriting across several products. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. The remaining increase in operating expenses more than offset the remaining increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,839 million, or 10%, to $20,594 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $18,755 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $797 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, such revenues increased by $1,042 million, or 6%, from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was comprised of higher net investment income of $584 million and growth in premiums, fees and other revenues of $458 million. Net investment income increased by $584 million of which management attributes $464 million to growth in the average asset base driven by business growth throughout 2005 and 2006, particularly in the GIC and structured settlement businesses and $120 million to an increase in yields. The increase in yields is primarily attributable to higher yields on fixed maturity securities, an increase in short term rates and higher returns on joint ventures. These increases were partially offset by a decline in securities lending results and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. The increase of $458 million in premiums, fees and other revenues was largely due to increases in the non medical health & other business of $408 million, primarily due to growth in the dental, disability and AD&D products of $255 million. In addition, continued growth in the LTC and IDI businesses contributed $117 million and 83 Table of Contents $25 million, respectively. Group life increased by $296 million, which management primarily attributes to the impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in term life business, which includes a significant increase in premiums from two large customers. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in retirement & savings premiums, fees and other revenues of $246 million, resulting primarily from a decline of $320 million in structured settlements, predominantly due to the impact of lower sales. This decline was partially offset by a $83 million increase in MTF premiums. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement & savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Expenses Total expenses increased by $1,616 million, or 10%, to $18,274 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $16,658 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $551 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total expenses increased $1,065 million, or 6%, from the comparable 2005 period. The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest credited to PABs of $621 million, policyholder benefits and claims of $366 million and operating expenses of $79 million. Management attributes the increase of $621 million in interest credited to PABs to $433 million from an increase in average crediting rates, which was largely due to the impact of higher short term rates in the current year period and $188 million solely from growth in the average PAB, primarily resulting from GICs within the retirement & savings business. The increases in policyholder benefits and claims of $366 million included a $27 million increase related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the increase related to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and claims increased by $339 million. Non medical health & others policyholder benefits and claims increased by $306 million, predominantly due to the aforementioned growth in business, as well as unfavorable morbidity in disability and unfavorable claim experience in AD&D. Partially offsetting these increases was favorable claim and morbidity experience in IDI, as well as the impact of an establishment of a $25 million liability for future losses in the prior year. In addition, favorable claim experience in the current year reduced dental policyholder benefits and claims. Additionally, disability business included a $22 million benefit which resulted from reserve refinements in the current year. The year over year variance in disability also includes the impact of an $18 million loss related to Hurricane Katrina in the prior year. Group lifes policyholder benefits and claims increased by $238 million, largely due to the aforementioned growth in the business, partially offset by favorable underwriting results, particularly in the term life business. Term life included a benefit of $16 million due to reserve refinements in the current year. Partially offsetting the increase was a retirement & savings policyholder benefits and claims decrease of $205 million, predominantly due to the aforementioned decrease in revenues, partially offset by higher FAS 60 interest credits recorded in policyholder benefits and claims due to growth in structured settlements and MTF. The increase in other expenses of $79 million was primarily due to an increase in the current year of $60 million in non deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support expenses. Non deferrable volume related expenses include those expenses associated with information technology, direct departmental spending and commission expenses. Corporate support expenses include advertising, corporate overhead and consulting fees. Also contributing to the increase was $26 million associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, $23 million of non deferrable LTC commission expense, $24 million related to costs associated with a previously announced regulatory settlement and $11 million related to stock based compensation. Partially offsetting these increases were benefits due to prior year charges of $43 million in Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals and $22 million related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 Institutional Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $89 million, or 7%, to $1,388 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $1,299 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for 84 Table of Contents $73 million of this increase, which includes $57 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, income from continuing operations increased by $16 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2004 period. An increase in interest margins of $124 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. Management attributed this increase primarily to the retirement & savings and the non medical health & other businesses of $81 million and $44 million, both net of income tax, respectively. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits, and the amount credited to PABs for investment type products recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. The increase in interest margins was partially offset by a decrease of $57 million, net of income tax, in net investment gains (losses), which was partially offset by a decrease of $10 million, net of income tax, in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Also contributing to the decline in income from continuing operations was a $14 million charge, net of income tax, related to an adjustment recorded on DAC associated with certain LTC products in 2005 and a reduction of a premium tax liability of $31 million, net of income tax, recorded in 2004. Underwriting results decreased by $7 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year. This decline was primarily due to less favorable results of $27 million, net of income tax, in retirement & savings and a $24 million, net of income tax, decrease in non medical health & other. These unfavorable results were partially offset by an improvement of $44 million, net of income tax, in group lifes underwriting results, primarily due to favorable claim experience. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. In addition, increases in operating expenses, which included higher expenses related to the Travelers integration, had more than offset the remaining growth in premiums, fees and other revenues. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $2,787 million, or 17%, to $18,755 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $15,968 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $855 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,932 million, or 12%, from the comparable 2004 period. This increase was comprised of growth in premiums, fees and other revenues of $1,266 million and higher net investment income of $666 million. The increase of $1,266 million in premiums, fees, and other revenues was largely due to an increase in non medical health & other of $520 million, primarily due to growth in the disability, dental and AD&D products of $360 million. In addition, continued growth in the LTC business contributed $138 million, of which $25 million was related to the 2004 acquisition of TIAA CREFs LTC business. Group life insurance premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $481 million, which management primarily attributed to improved sales and favorable persistency, as well as a significant increase in premiums from two large customers. Retirement & savings premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $265 million, which was largely due to growth in premiums, resulting primarily from an increase of $166 million in structured settlement sales and 85 Table of Contents $107 million in pension close outs. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement & savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions, and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. The increase in net investment income of $666 million, management attributed to $439 million solely from growth in the average asset base, primarily driven by sales, particularly in GICs and the structured settlement business and $227 million from an increase in higher income from corporate and real estate joint ventures interest on the growth of allocated capital, and securities lending activities across the businesses and higher short term interest rates. Expenses Total expenses increased by $2,497 million, or 18%, to $16,658 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $14,161 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $658 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, total expenses increased by $1,839 million, or 13%, from the comparable 2004 period. This increase was comprised of higher policyholder benefits and claims of $1,278 million, an increase in interest credited to PABs of $334 million and an increase in other expenses of $227 million. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $1,278 million was attributable to a $482 million, a $452 million, and a $344 million increase in the non medical health & other, group life, and retirement & savings businesses, respectively. These increases were predominantly attributable to the business growth referenced in the revenue discussion above. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims in the non medical health & other business included the impact of the acquisition of TIAA CREFs LTC business of $43 million. These increases included $2 million and $18 million of policyholder benefits and claims related to Hurricane Katrina in the group life and non medical health & other business, respectively. Management attributed the increase in interest credited to PABs of $334 million to $229 million from an increase in average crediting rates, which was largely due to the impact of higher short term rates in the current year period and $105 million solely from growth in the average PAB, primarily resulting from GICs within the retirement & savings business. The rise in other expenses of $227 million was primarily due to higher non deferrable volume related expenses of $61 million, which were largely associated with business growth, an increase of $39 million in corporate support expenses, and $43 million of Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals. In addition, expenses increased as a result of the impact of a $49 million benefit recorded in the second quarter of 2004, which was related to a reduction in a premium tax liability. Expenses also increased by $22 million related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products in 2005. 86 Table of Contents Individual The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Individual segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 4,516 $ 4,485 $ 4,186 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 3,201 2,476 1,805 Net investment income 6,912 6,534 6,027 Other revenues 527 477 422 Net investment gains (losses) (598 ) (50 ) 91 Total revenues 14,558 13,922 12,531 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 5,409 5,417 5,100 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 2,035 1,775 1,618 Policyholder dividends 1,697 1,670 1,657 Other expenses 3,519 3,264 2,870 Total expenses 12,660 12,126 11,245 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 1,898 1,796 1,286 Provision for income tax 652 594 426 Income from continuing operations 1,246 1,202 860 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 18 296 24 Net income $ 1,264 $ 1,498 $ 884 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Individual Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $44 million, or 4%, to $1,246 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,202 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $112 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which included $88 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Included in the Travelers results was a $21 million increase to the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $68 million, or 6%, to $1,134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,202 million for the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease were net investment losses of $270 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses) and the acquisition of Travelers for the first six months of 2006, income from continuing operations increased by $202 million from the comparable 2005 period. Fee income from separate account products increased income from continuing operations by $151 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from a combination of growth in the business and overall market performance. Favorable underwriting results in life products contributed $125 million, net of income tax, to the increase in income from continuing operations. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or 87 Table of Contents other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Lower DAC amortization resulting from investment losses and adjustments for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins contributed $113 million, net of income tax, to the increase in income from continuing operations. Higher net investment income on blocks of business that were not driven by interest margins of $16 million, net of income tax, also contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. The decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $4 million, net of income tax, also contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. These aforementioned increases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by a decline in interest margins of $58 million, net of income tax. Interest margin relates primarily to the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed $40 million of this decrease to the deferred annuity business and the remaining $18 million to other investment type products. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs related to the general account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net adjustments for other non policyholder elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest credited to PABs tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, subject to any minimum guarantees, and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. In addition, the increase in income from continuing operations was partially offset by higher expenses of $52 million, net of income tax. Higher general spending in the current period was partially offset by higher corporate incentives in the prior year. Also partially offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations were higher annuity benefits of $30 million, net of income tax, primarily due to higher costs of the guaranteed annuity benefit riders and the related hedging, and revisions to future policyholder benefits. In addition, the increase in income from continuing operations was partially offset by an increase to interest credited to PABs due primarily to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on annuity and universal life blocks of business of $26 million, net of income tax. An increase in policyholder dividends of $18 million, net of income tax, due to growth in the business also partially offset the increase in income from continuing operations. The change in effective tax rates between periods accounts for the remainder of the increase in income from continuing operations. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,184 million, or 8%, to $15,156 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $13,972 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $1,009 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by $175 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2005 period. Premiums decreased by $38 million due to a decrease in immediate annuity premiums of $22 million, and a $103 million expected decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business, partially offset by growth in premiums from other life products of $87 million. Higher universal life and investment type product policy fees combined with other revenues of $267 million resulted from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. 88 Table of Contents Net investment income decreased by $54 million. Net investment income from the general account portion of investment type products decreased by $56 million which was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in other businesses. Management attributed a decrease of $146 million partially to lower yields in the current year primarily resulting from lower income from securities lending activities, mortgage and bond prepayment fee income, partially offset by higher corporate joint venture income. In addition, management attributed an increase of $92 million from growth in the average asset base primarily from equity securities and mortgage loans. Expenses Total expenses increased by $534 million, or 4%, to $12,660 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $12,126 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $706 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Included in the Travelers results was a $33 million increase to the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses decreased by $172 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits decreased by $156 million primarily due to favorable mortality in the life products of $109 million, as well as a reduction in reserves of $49 million related to the excess mortality liability on a specific block of life insurance policies that lapsed or otherwise changed. Also, policyholder benefits decreased due to a reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $6 million driven by higher net investment losses. In addition, policyholder benefits decreased commensurate with the premium decreases in both immediate annuities and the Companys closed block of business of $22 million and $103 million, respectively. Partially offsetting this decline in benefits was an increase commensurate with the increase in premiums of $87 million from other life products. Partially offsetting these decreases in policyholder benefits was an increase in annuity benefits of $46 million primarily due to higher costs of the guaranteed annuity benefit riders and the related hedging, and revisions to future policyholder benefits. Partially offsetting these decreases, interest credited to PABs increased by $51 million. Lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business resulting from higher lapses in the prior period, as well as an update of assumptions in the current period contributed $40 million to the increase. In addition, there was an increase of $16 million on the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed this increase to higher crediting rates of $37 million, partially offset by $21 million due to lower average PABs. Partially offsetting these decreases in total expenses was a $27 million increase in policyholder dividends associated with growth in the business. Lower other expenses of $94 million include lower DAC amortization of $174 million resulting from changes in investment gains and losses of $154 million and $20 million related to managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. Excluding DAC amortization, other expenses increased by $80 million. The current year period included higher general spending of $94 million primarily due to information technology and travel expenses while the prior year period had higher corporate incentives of $39 million related to the Travelers integration. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and postretirement liabilities in both periods was a net increase to expenses of $25 million in the current period. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 Individual Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $342 million, or 40%, to $1,202 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $860 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $96 million of the increase which included $66 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Included in the Travelers results was a charge for the establishment of an excess mortality reserve related to group of specific policies. In connection with MetLifes acquisition of Travelers, the Company had performed reviews of Travelers underwriting criteria in an effort to refine its estimated fair values for the purchase allocation. As a result of these reviews and actuarial analyses, and to be consistent with MetLifes existing reserving methodologies, the Company 89 Table of Contents has established an excess mortality reserve on a specific group of policies. This resulted in a charge of $20 million, net of income tax, to fourth quarter results. The Company completed its reviews and refined its estimate of the excess mortality reserve in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations increased by $246 million, or 29%, for the comparable 2004 period. Included in this increase were net investment losses of $26 million, net of income tax. An increase in interest margins of $117 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. Interest margin relates primarily to the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed $92 million of this increase to the deferred annuity business and the remainder of $25 million to the other investment type products. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to PABs related to the general account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net adjustments for other non policyholder elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited to PABs. Interest credited to PABs is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest credited to PABs tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, subject to any minimum guarantees, and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Fee income from separate account products increased by $126 million, net of income tax, primarily related to growth in the business and favorable market conditions. Favorable underwriting results in life products contributed $37 million, net of income tax, to the increase in income from continuing operations. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. The decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $27 million, net of income tax, lower annuity net guaranteed benefit costs of $12 million, net of income tax, and lower DAC amortization of $6 million, net of income tax, all contributed to the increase. These increases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by lower net investment income on blocks of business that are not driven by interest margins of $17 million, net of income tax. The increase in income from continuing operations was partially offset by higher expenses of $10 million, net of income tax, primarily due to higher operating costs offset by the impact of revisions to certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liability estimates in the current year and certain asset write offs in the prior year. Additionally, offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations was a revision to the estimate for policyholder dividends of $9 million, net of income tax, which occurred in the prior year. The changes in tax rates between years accounted for a decrease in income from continuing operations of $15 million. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,532 million, or 12%, to $13,972 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $12,440 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $975 million of the increase. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses) increased by $557 million, or 4%, to $12,997 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $12,440 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase included higher fee income primarily from variable annuity and universal life products of $239 million resulting from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. 90 Table of Contents In addition, management attributed higher premiums of $170 million in 2005 to the active marketing of income annuity products. Although premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business continue to decline, as expected, by $94 million, an increase in premiums of $130 million from other life products more than offset the decline of the closed block. Included in the premium increase of the other life products was the impact of growth in the business and a new reinsurance strategy where more business was retained. Net investment income increased by $111 million. Net investment income from the general account portion of investment type products increased by $136 million, which was partially offset by a decrease of $25 million on other businesses. Management attributed $75 million of this increase to corporate and real estate joint venture income and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees partially offset by a decline in bond yields, as well as $61 million due to growth in the average asset base. Expenses Total expenses increased by $881 million, or 8%, to $12,126 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $11,245 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $761 million of the increase. Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Travelers, total expenses increased by $120 million, or 1%, to $11,365 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $11,245 million for the comparable 2004 period. Higher expenses were primarily the result of higher policyholder benefits primarily due to the increase in future policy benefits of $207 million, commensurate with the net increase in premium on annuity and life products discussed above, partially offset by $5 million due to better mortality in life products. Also partially offsetting the increase in policyholder benefits was a reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $41 million and a benefit of $18 million associated with the hedging of guaranteed annuity benefit riders. The reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation was driven by lower net investment income, offset by higher realized gains in the closed block. Interest credited to PABs decreased by $45 million due primarily to a $41 million decrease on the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed this decrease to lower crediting rates of $91 million partially offset by $50 million solely due to growth in the average PABs. In addition, total expenses increased by $13 million due to a revision in the estimate of policyholder dividends in the prior period. Other expenses increased primarily due to higher corporate incentive expenses of $60 million and higher general spending of $28 million. The current year included revisions to prior period estimates for certain expense, premium tax and policyholder liabilities which reduced the current year expenses while the prior period included certain asset write offs which increased the prior year expenses. The impact of these two items resulted in a decrease in other expenses of $73 million. Also offsetting the increase in other expenses was lower DAC amortization of $9 million resulting from net investment losses and adjustments for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins partially offset by growth in the business. 91 Table of Contents Auto & Home The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Auto & Home segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 2,924 $ 2,911 $ 2,948 Net investment income 177 181 171 Other revenues 22 33 35 Net investment gains (losses) 4 (12 ) (9 ) Total revenues 3,127 3,113 3,145 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 1,717 1,994 2,079 Policyholder dividends 6 3 2 Other expenses 845 828 795 Total expenses 2,568 2,825 2,876 Income (loss) before provision for income tax 559 288 269 Provision (benefit) for income tax 143 64 61 Net income (loss) $ 416 $ 224 $ 208 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Auto & Home Net Income Net income increased by $192 million, or 86%, to $416 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $224 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 from Hurricane Katrina of $124 million, net of income tax, related to losses, loss adjusting expenses and reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums and a loss in the fourth quarter of 2005 related to losses and expenses from Hurricane Wilma of $32 million, net of income tax. Excluding the losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, net income increased by $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. Favorable development of prior year loss reserves contributed $72 million, net of income tax, to the increase in net income. In addition, an improvement in non catastrophe loss experience, primarily due to improved frequencies, contributed $16 million, net of income tax and a reduction in loss adjustment expenses, primarily due to improved claims handling practices, contributed $13 million, net of income tax, to the increase. The increase in net income was offset by higher catastrophe losses in the current year, excluding the impact of Katrina and Wilma, resulting in a decrease to net income of $49 million, net of income tax. Also impacting net income was a decrease in net earned premiums, excluding the impact of Hurricane Katrina, of $19 million, net of income tax, resulting primarily from an increase of $16 million, net of income tax, in catastrophe reinsurance costs and a reduction of $4 million, net of income tax, in involuntary assumed business, offset by an increase in premiums of $1 million, net of income tax, primarily from increased exposures, mostly offset by lower average premium per policy. In addition, other revenues decreased by $7 million, net of income tax, due to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting in slower recognition of deferred income related to a reinsurance contract. Net investment income decreased by $3 million, net of income tax, due to a $12 million decrease in net investment income related to a realignment of economic capital, partially offset by a $9 million increase in income as a result of a slightly higher 92 Table of Contents asset base. Net investment gains (losses) increased $10 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the comparable 2005 period. Other expenses increased by $11 million, net of income tax, primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. The change in effective tax rates between periods accounted for the remainder of the increase in net income. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), decreased by $2 million, or less than 1%, to $3,123 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,125 million for the comparable 2005 period. Premiums increased by $13 million due principally to the existence of a $43 million charge for reinstatement and additional reinsurance premiums in the third quarter of 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina. Premiums decreased by $30 million year over year after giving consideration to this charge. This decrease resulted from $25 million in additional catastrophe reinsurance costs and a decrease of $6 million in involuntary assumed business in 2006, mainly associated with the Massachusetts involuntary market. These changes were partially offset by an increase in premiums of $35 million resulting from increased exposures, offset by a $34 million decrease in premiums from a change in the average earned premium per policy. Net investment income decreased by $4 million primarily due to an $18 million decrease in net investment income related to a realignment of economic capital, mostly offset by a $14 million increase in income as a result of a slightly higher asset base with slightly higher yields. Other revenues decreased by $11 million due to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting in a slower recognition of deferred income related to a reinsurance contract. Expenses Total expenses decreased by $257 million, or 9%, to $2,568 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,825 million for the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $277 million which was primarily due to $196 million in claims and expenses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma incurred in 2005. The remainder of the decrease in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, can be attributed to $111 million in additional favorable development of prior year losses, improvements in claim frequencies of $72 million and a decrease of $20 million in unallocated loss expense due primarily to improved claims handling practices. These decreases in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, were partially offset by $32 million of additional losses due to severity, $15 million of additional losses due to exposure growth and a $75 million increase in catastrophe losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Other expenses increased by $17 million primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 Auto & Home Net Income Net income increased by $16 million, or 8%, to $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $208 million for the comparable 2004 period. The increase was primarily the result of improvements in the development of prior years claims of $40 million, net of income tax, and an improvement in the non catastrophe combined ratio resulting in $16 million, net of income tax, primarily due to lower automobile and homeowner claim frequencies. 93 Table of Contents Also contributing to this increase in net income was an improvement in losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan of $12 million, net of income tax, an increase in net investment income of $6 million, net of income tax, and an increase in earned premium of $4 million, net of income tax, as discussed below. Offsetting these improved results, was an increase in catastrophes, including Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma of $63 million, net of income tax. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), decreased by $29 million, or 1%, to $3,125 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,154 million for the comparable 2004 period. This decrease was primarily attributable to reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums due to Hurricane Katrina of $43 million. This decrease was partially offset by higher net investment income of $10 million, primarily due to a change in the allocation of economic capital, offset by a lower yield on a slightly higher invested asset base and an increase in earned premium of $6 million primarily due to rate increases, higher inflation guard endorsements and higher insurance to value programs, all in the homeowners business. Expenses Total expenses decreased by $51 million, or 2%, to $2,825 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,876 million for the comparable 2004 period. This decrease was predominantly due to improved non catastrophe losses of $32 million. This was primarily due to lower non catastrophe automobile and homeowner claim frequencies of $18 million and a smaller exposure base of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the comparable 2004 period. Improvement in the development of losses reported in prior years contributed $61 million. Unallocated claim expenses, excluding the expenses associated with Hurricane Katrina, decreased by $28 million mainly due to a smaller increase in the year over year change in unallocated claim expense liability due to a smaller increase in the related loss reserve and related unallocated claim expense reserve rate. Assumed losses from the involuntary Massachusetts automobile plan decreased by $18 million primarily due to improved claim frequency and severity trends. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in catastrophe losses, including Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, of $54 million and an increase in other expenses of $33 million primarily as a result of higher information technology, advertising and compensation costs. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes and before the reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments due to Hurricane Katrina, was 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus 90.4% for the comparable 2004 period. 94 Table of Contents International The following table presents consolidated financial information for the International segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 2,722 $ 2,186 $ 1,690 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 804 579 349 Net investment income 1,050 844 585 Other revenues 28 20 23 Net investment gains (losses) 22 5 23 Total revenues 4,626 3,634 2,670 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 2,411 2,128 1,611 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 364 278 151 Policyholder dividends (2 ) 5 6 Other expenses 1,543 1,000 614 Total expenses 4,316 3,411 2,382 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 310 223 288 Provision (benefit) for income tax 110 36 86 Income from continuing operations 200 187 202 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 5 (9 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax 200 192 193 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax (30 ) Net income $ 200 $ 192 $ 163 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 International Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $13 million, or 7%, to $200 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $187 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $38 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which includes $18 million, net of income tax, of net investment gains. Included in the Travelers results is an increase to policyholder benefits and claims of $10 million, net of income tax, resulting from the increase in policyholder liabilities due to higher than expected mortality in Brazil on specific blocks of business written in the Travelers entity since the acquisition, and consistent with the increase in the existing MetLife entity as described more fully below. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $25 million, or 13%, from the comparable 2005 period. This decrease includes the impact of net investment gains (losses) of ($6) million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations decreased by $19 million from the comparable 2005 period. Taiwans income from continuing operations decreased by $59 million, net of income tax, due to a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of accelerated DAC amortization) of $50 million, net of income tax, and restructuring costs of $11 million, net of income tax, partially offset by reserve refinements of $3 million, net of income tax, associated with the conversion to a new valuation system. Income from continuing operations decreased in Canada by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to the realignment of economic capital 95 Table of Contents in the prior year. Mexicos income from continuing operations decreased by $12 million, net of income tax, due to an increase in amortization of DAC resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins in both years, higher operating expenses from the pension business, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various one time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited by $13 million, net of income tax, and the current year benefited by $11 million, net of income tax, as well as an increase of $27 million in tax due to tax benefits realized in the prior year from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). These were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in unrealized investment gains on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in the current year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent liabilities that were established related to potential employment matters in that year and which were eliminated in the current year as well as overall business growth. Income from continuing operations decreased in Brazil by $7 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a $10 million, net of income tax, increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to an increase in future policyholder benefit liabilities on specific blocks of business. This increase is due to significantly higher than expected mortality experience, of which a total of $20 million of additional liabilities were recorded, $10 million of which was associated with the acquired Travelers business, and $10 million of which was related to the existing MetLife entities. Brazils income from continuing operations was also impacted by an increase in litigation liabilities, as well as adverse claim experience in the current year. The results of the Companys investment in Japan decreased by $4 million due to variability in the hedging program. The home office recorded higher infrastructure expenditures in support of segment growth of $39 million, net of income tax, as well as a $23 million contingent tax liability. In addition, expenses related to the Companys start up operation in Ireland reduced net income by $34 million in the current year. A valuation allowance was established against the deferred tax benefit resulting from the Ireland losses. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in South Koreas income from continuing operations of $79 million, net of income tax, primarily due to continued growth of the in force business, a one time benefit of $38 million, net of income tax, associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as well as a benefit of $13 million from the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Argentinas income from continuing operations increased by $61 million, net of income tax, due to higher net investment income resulting from capital contributions since the completion of the Travelers acquisition, the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain contingent liabilities, the utilization of $4 million of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established, a $12 million increase in the prior year period of a deferred tax valuation allowance established against tax benefits in that year, as well as business growth. Australias income from continuing operations increased by $17 million, net of income tax, primarily due to reserve strengthening on a block of business in the prior year, as well as business growth. Income from continuing operations increased in Chile by $5 million primarily due to growth in the institutional business of $2 million, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $2 million, and in the United Kingdom by $5 million primarily due to growth of the in force business. In addition, income from continuing operations increased by $13 million, net of income tax, due to a reduction in the amount charged for economic capital. The remainder of the decrease in income from continuing operations can be attributed to other countries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $2 million of the increase in income from continuing operations. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $975 million, or 27%, to $4,604 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,629 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $413 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by $562 million, or 15%, over the comparable 2005 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $469 million, or 17%, to $3,254 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,785 million for the comparable 2005 period. Mexicos premiums, fees and other 96 Table of Contents revenues increased by $159 million, primarily due to higher fees and growth in its universal life and institutional business, partially offset by an adjustment for experience refunds on a block of business and various one time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited by $19 million and the current year benefited by $16 million. South Koreas premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $156 million primarily due to business growth driven by strong sales of its variable universal life product, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $56 million. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Brazil by $49 million due to business growth and higher bancassurance business, as well as an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements. Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $22 million primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $14 million, as well as an increase in institutional premiums through its bank distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales due in part from managements decision not to match aggressive pricing in the marketplace. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in the United Kingdom, Argentina, Australia, and Taiwan by $21 million, $16 million, $15 million, and $12 million respectively, primarily due to business growth. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Net investment income increased by $93 million, or 11%, to $937 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $844 million for the comparable 2005 period. Net investment income increased in Argentina by $41 million primarily due to higher invested assets resulting from capital contributions since the completion of the Travelers acquisition. Net investment income in Mexico increased by $28 million primarily due to higher inflation rates and increases in invested assets, partially offset by lower average investment yields. Net investment income in Chile decreased by $8 million primarily due to a reduction in the inflation rate, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $8 million and increases in invested assets. The invested asset valuations and returns on these invested assets are linked to inflation rates in most of the Latin American countries in which the Company does business. South Korea, Brazil and Taiwans net investment income increased by $25 million, $14 million and $5 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in invested assets, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million. Net investment income in the home office increased by $17 million primarily due to a reduction in the amount charged for economic capital from the prior year. These increases in net investment income were partially offset by a decrease of $33 million in Canada due to the realignment of economic capital. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $105 million on total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses). Expenses Total expenses increased by $905 million, or 27%, to $4,316 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,411 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $388 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $517 million, or 15%, over the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to PABs increased by $186 million, or 8%, to $2,597 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,411 million for the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to PABs in Mexico increased by $113 million primarily due to an increase in other policyholder benefits and claims of $108 million and in interest credited to PABs of $39 million commensurate with the growth in revenue discussed above. These increases in Mexico were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities of $18 million caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment gains on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, a $10 million benefit from a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, and a $6 million benefit in the current year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review. Brazils policyholder benefits and claims increased by $49 million primarily due to an increase in policyholder liabilities on these specific blocks of business as discussed above, an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements, as well as adverse claim experience in other lines of business. South Koreas policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to PABs increased by $44 million commensurate with the business growth discussed above, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $33 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends, and interest credited to PABs in Australia of $19 million due to reserve 97 Table of Contents strengthening in the prior year on a block of reinsurance business and a decrease in Chile of $7 million primarily due to a decrease in annuity liabilities related to the decrease in the inflation index and the decrease in annuity premiums discussed above, partially offset by growth in the institutional business, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $17 million. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends, and interest credited to PABs decreased in Taiwan by $2 million primarily due to a decrease of $14 million from reserve refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, partially offset by an increase of $12 million primarily due to business growth. Argentinas policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends, and interest credited to PABs decreased by $2 million primarily due to the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, partially offset by business growth. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Other expenses increased by $330 million, or 33%, to $1,330 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,000 million for the comparable 2005 period. Taiwans other expenses increased by $110 million primarily due to a one time increase in DAC amortization of $77 million due to a loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency rates on certain blocks of business, an increase of $17 million related to the termination of the agency distribution channel in Taiwan, an increase of $9 million from refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, as well as business growth. Mexicos other expenses increased by $49 million primarily due to an increase in commissions commensurate with the revenue growth discussed above, higher DAC amortization resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, higher expenses related to growth initiatives, and additional expenses associated with the Mexican pension business, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of contingent liabilities that were established in the prior year related to potential employment matters and which were eliminated in the current year. South Koreas other expenses increased by $25 million, primarily due to an increase in DAC amortization and general expenses, which were both due to the growth in business, the impact in the prior year of an accrual for an early retirement program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $15 million. These were partially offset by a decrease of $60 million in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. Brazils other expenses increased by $25 million primarily due to the growth in business discussed above, as well as an increase in litigation liabilities. Chiles other expenses increased by $13 million due to increased commissions and other expenses associated with its institutional business, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $4 million. Other expenses increased in the United Kingdom and Australia by $15 million and $8 million, respectively, primarily due to business growth. Other expenses associated with the home office increased by $57 million primarily due to an increase in expenditures for information technology projects, growth initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an increase in compensation resulting from an increase in headcount from the comparable 2005 period. In addition, $34 million of expenses were incurred related to the start up of the Companys operation in Ireland. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other expenses of $9 million in Argentina primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain contingent liabilities. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $90 million of the increase in total expenses. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 International Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased by $15 million, or 7%, to $187 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $202 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for a loss from continuing operations of $24 million including net investment losses of $14 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, income from continuing operations increased by $9 million, or 4%, over the prior year. South Koreas income from continuing operations increased by $26 million, net of income tax, primarily due to growth in business, specifically higher sales of its variable universal life product and a larger in force business. Chiles income from continuing operations increased by $8 million primarily due to growth in business, specifically in the new bank distribution channel, as well as an increase in net investment income primarily due to higher 98 Table of Contents inflation rates. Mexicos income from continuing operations increased by $8 million, primarily due to tax benefits of $27 million under the AJCA, higher net investment earnings, an adjustment to the amortization of DAC for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins and several other one time revenue items. These increases in Mexico were substantially offset by an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment losses on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, as well as an increase in expenses for start up costs for the new Mexican Pension Business (AFORE) and contingency liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases in income from continuing operations was a decrease in Canada of $13 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a realignment of economic capital, offset by the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year and higher home office and infrastructure expenditures in support of the segment growth of $16 million, net of income tax. The remainder of the variance can be attributed to various other countries. Additionally, $4 million of the increase in income from continuing operations is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $982 million, or 37%, to $3,629 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,647 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $377 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total revenues, excluding net investment gains, increased by $605 million, or 23%, over the comparable 2004 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $452 million, or 22%, to $2,514 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,062 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase is primarily the result of continued business growth through increased sales and renewal business within South Korea, Brazil and Taiwan of $216 million, $48 million and $31 million, respectively. Mexicos premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $78 million primarily due to increases in the institutional and agency business channels, as well as several one time other revenue items of $19 million. Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $64 million mainly due to its new bank distribution channel. Net investment income increased by $153 million, or 26%, to $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $585 million for the comparable 2004 period. Mexicos net investment income increased by $89 million due principally to increases in interest rates and also as a result of an increase in invested assets. Chiles net investment income increased by $58 million primarily due to higher inflation rates and an increase in invested assets. Investment valuations and returns on invested assets in Chile are linked to the inflation rates. South Korea and Taiwans net investment income increased by $20 million and $11 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in their invested assets. These increases in net investment income were partially offset by a decrease of $21 million due to the realignment of economic capital. The remainder of the increases in total revenues, excluding net investment gains, can be attributed to business growth and investment income in other countries. Additionally, $221 million of the increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Expenses Total expenses increased by $1,029 million, or 43%, to $3,411 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $2,382 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers accounted for $404 million of this increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total expenses increased by $625 million, or 26%, over the comparable 2004 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to PABs increased by $451 million, or 26%, to $2,219 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $1,768 million for the comparable 2004 period. Policyholder benefits and claims and dividends in Mexico increased by $177 million primarily due to an increase in certain policyholder liabilities caused by unrealized investment gains (losses) on the invested assets supporting those liabilities of $110 million, as well as an increase in interest credited to policyholder accounts of $65 million in line with the net investment income increase in Mexico. South Korea, Taiwan and Brazils 99 Table of Contents policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder accounts increased by $122 million, $41 million and $27 million, respectively, commensurate with the business growth discussed above. Chiles policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder accounts increased by $86 million due to the business growth primarily in the bank distribution channel business, as well as to an increase in the liabilities for annuity benefits, which, like net investment income on related assets, are linked to the inflation rate. Hong Kongs policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends increased by $3 million due to higher claims and the associated increase in liabilities in 2005. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $10 million in Canadas policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to PABs primarily due to the strengthening of the liability on its pension business related to changes in mortality assumptions in the prior year. Other expenses increased by $174 million, or 28%, to $788 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $614 million for the comparable 2004 period. South Koreas other expenses increased by $73 million primarily due to higher amortization of DAC driven by the rapid growth in the business, a decrease in a payroll tax liability in the prior year resulting from the resolution of the related tax matter, an accrual for an early retirement program in 2005, as well as additional overhead expenses in line with the growth in business. Mexicos other expenses increased by $17 million primarily due to incurred start up costs during the current year associated with the AFORE operations, an increase in liabilities related to potential employment matters in 2005, an increase in consulting services and a decrease in the prior year of severance accruals. Partially offsetting these increases in Mexico is a decrease in the amortization of DAC due to an adjustment for managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. Brazils other expenses increased by $28 million, primarily due to growth in business discussed above including an increase in non deferrable sales expenses. Chiles other expenses increased by $24 million due primarily to increases in non deferrable expenses for the bank distribution channel of business in 2005. Other expenses at home office also increased by $26 million primarily due to increased consultant fees for growth initiative projects, an increase in compensation resulting from increased headcount, higher incentive compensation, as well as higher costs for legal, marketing and other corporate support expenses. The remainder of the increase in total expenses can be attributed to business growth in other countries. Additionally, a component of the growth in total expenses is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $202 million. 100 Table of Contents Reinsurance The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 4,348 $ 3,869 $ 3,348 Net investment income 732 606 538 Other revenues 66 58 56 Net investment gains (losses) 7 22 59 Total revenues 5,153 4,555 4,001 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 3,490 3,206 2,694 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 254 220 212 Policyholder dividends 1 Other expenses 1,227 991 957 Total expenses 4,971 4,417 3,864 Income before provision for income tax 182 138 137 Provision for income tax 64 46 46 Net income $ 118 $ 92 $ 91 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Reinsurance Net Income Net income increased by $26 million, or 28%, to $118 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $92 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in net income was attributable to a 12% increase in premiums while policyholder benefits and claims increased by 9%, a 21% increase in net investment income while interest credited to PABs increased by 15%, and a 14% increase in other revenues. The increase in premiums, net of the increase in policyholder benefits and claims, added $127 million to net income which was primarily due to added business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims was partially offset by unfavorable mortality and an increase in the liabilities associated with RGAs Argentine pension business, both in the prior year period. The increase in net investment income and interest credited to PABs added $60 million to net income and was due to growth in the invested asset base. The increase in invested assets, and net investment income, substantially derived from the issuance of notes and a collateral financing facility, which increased interest expense within other expenses as described below. The increase in other revenues added $5 million to net income and was primarily related to an increase in investment product fees on asset intensive business and financial reinsurance fees during 2006, partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains in the prior year period. These increases in net income were partially offset by a $153 million increase in other expenses and a $10 million decrease in net investment gains (losses), all net of income tax. Additionally, a higher effective tax rate in 2006 reduced net income by $3 million. The increase in other expenses was primarily related to expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, interest expense associated with RGAs issuance of $850 million 30 year notes to provide long term collateral for Regulation XXX statutory reserves in June 2006 and $400 million of junior subordinated notes in December 2005, minority interest expense, and equity compensation expense. 101 Table of Contents Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $613 million, or 14%, to $5,146 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $4,533 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in such revenues was primarily associated with growth in premiums of $479 million from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in all RGA operating segments, including the U.S., which contributed $220 million; Asia Pacific, which contributed $138 million; Canada, which contributed $86 million; and Europe and South Africa, which contributed $35 million. Premium levels were significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Net investment income increased by $126 million, primarily due to growth in the invested asset base from net proceeds of RGAs $850 million 30 year notes offering in June 2006 and $400 million junior subordinated note offering in December 2005, positive operating cash inflows and additional deposits associated with the coinsurance of annuity products. Investment yields were up slightly compared to the prior year period. The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a decrease related to a realignment of economic capital. Other revenues increased by $8 million primarily due to an increase in investment product fees on asset intensive business and financial reinsurance fees during 2006, partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains. Additionally, a component of the increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), was a $36 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Expenses Total expenses increased by $554 million, or 13%, to $4,971 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $4,417 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in total expenses was commensurate with the growth in revenues and was primarily attributable to an increase of $284 million in policyholder benefits and claims, primarily associated with growth in insurance in force of $245 billion, and a $34 million increase in interest credited due to growth in PABs associated with the coinsurance of annuity products, which is generally offset by a corresponding increase in net investment income. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $284 million was partially offset by favorable underwriting results in RGAs international operations in the current year period, unfavorable mortality experience in the U.S. and the United Kingdom in the prior year period, and a $33 million increase in the liabilities associated with the Argentine pension business in the prior year period. Other expenses increased by $236 million due to a $92 million increase in expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, a $47 million increase in interest expense primarily associated with RGAs issuance of $850 million 30 year notes in June 2006 and $400 million of junior subordinated notes in December 2005, as well as a $47 million increase in minority interest expense on the larger earnings base in the current period. The remaining increase of $50 million was primarily related to overhead related expenses associated with RGAs international expansion and general growth in operations, including equity compensation expense. Additionally, a component of the increase in total expenses was a $33 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 Reinsurance Net Income Net income increased by $1 million, or 1%, to $92 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $91 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase was attributable to a 14% increase in revenues, primarily due to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations, as well as an increase in net investment income due to growth in RGAs operations and invested asset base. 102 Table of Contents The increase in net income was partially offset by a reduction in net investment gains of $12 million, net of income tax and minority interest, and a higher loss ratio in the 2005 period, primarily due to unfavorable mortality experience as a result of high claim levels in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. during the first six months of the year. Reserve strengthening in RGAs Argentine pension business in 2005 reduced net income by $11 million, net of income tax and minority interest. The comparable 2004 period included a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business, reducing net income by $8 million, net of income tax and minority interest. The Argentine pension business and the accident and health business are in run off. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $591 million, or 15%, to $4,533 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,942 million for the comparable 2004 period primarily due to a $521 million, or 16%, increase in premiums and a $68 million, or 13%, increase in net investment income. New premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations contributed to the premium growth. Premium levels were significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. The growth in net investment income was the result of the growth in RGAs operations and invested asset base. Additionally, a component of the total revenue increase was attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements contributing an estimated $49 million. Expenses Total expenses increased by $553 million, or 14%, to $4,417 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3,864 million for the comparable 2004 period. This increase was commensurate with growth in revenues and was primarily attributable to an increase of $520 million in policyholder benefits and claims and interest credited to PABs, primarily associated with RGAs growth in insurance in force of $270 billion, the aforementioned unfavorable mortality experience in the U.S. and the United Kingdom during the first six months of the 2005 period, and strengthening of reserves of $33 million for the Argentine pension business. The comparable 2004 period included a negotiated claim settlement in RGAs accident and health business of $24 million and $18 million in policy benefits and claims as a result of the Indian Ocean tsunami on December 26, 2004 and claims development associated with the reinsurance of the Argentine pension business, respectively. Other expenses increased by $34 million, or 4%, primarily due to an increase in the amortization of DAC. Changes in DAC, included in other expenses, can vary from period to period primarily due to changes in the mixture of the business being reinsured. Additionally, $46 million of the total expense increase was attributable to foreign currency exchange rate movements. 103 Table of Contents Corporate & Other The following table presents consolidated financial information for Corporate & Other for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 35 $ 22 $ (9 ) Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1 2 Net investment income 1,054 709 385 Other revenues 34 30 8 Net investment gains (losses) (154 ) (48 ) (152 ) Total revenues 969 714 234 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 37 (15 ) 5 Other expenses 1,349 955 605 Total expenses 1,386 940 610 Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income tax (417 ) (226 ) (376 ) Income tax benefit (416 ) (211 ) (294 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (1 ) (15 ) (82 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 3,129 1,161 223 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax 3,128 1,146 141 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income tax 4 Net income 3,128 1,146 145 Preferred stock dividends 134 63 Net income available to common shareholders $ 2,994 $ 1,083 $ 145 Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Corporate & Other Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Income (loss) from continuing operations increased by $14 million, or 93%, to ($1) million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from ($15) million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, contributed $111 million during the first six months of 2006 to income (loss) from continuing operations, which included $3 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $97 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease were higher investment losses of $66 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and the increase of net investment losses, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $31 million. The 2006 period includes an expense related to a $23 million, net of income tax, contribution to the MetLife Foundation. The 2005 period included a $30 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999, and an $18 million benefit, associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000, both net of income tax. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations increased by $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. The increase in income (loss) from continuing operations was primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower integration costs and higher other revenues of $102 million, 104 Table of Contents $62 million, and $4 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on debt (principally associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers acquisition), corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits and legal related liabilities of $125 million, $70 million, $55 million and $5 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits increased by $113 million over the comparable 2005 period due to the difference of finalizing the Companys 2005 tax return in 2006 when compared to finalizing the Companys 2004 tax return in 2005 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $361 million, or 47%, to $1,123 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $762 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $200 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, revenues increased by $161 million, or 21%, from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily attributable to increased net investment income of $157 million primarily from increases in income on fixed maturity securities due to improved yields from lengthening of the duration and a higher asset base, and the impact of higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. The increase also resulted from a higher asset base invested in mortgage loans on real estate, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership interests and was partially offset by a decline in securities lending results and leveraged leases. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased other revenues of $4 million, which primarily consisted of increased surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies. Also included as a component of total revenues were the intersegment eliminations which were offset within total expenses. Expenses Total expenses increased by $446 million, or 47%, to $1,386 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $940 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs, contributed $59 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $387 million, or 41%, for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. The 2006 period included a $35 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation. The 2005 period included a $47 million benefit associated with a reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999 and a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000. Excluding the impact of these items, total expenses increased by $277 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher interest expense of $192 million. The principal reason was a result of the issuance of senior notes in 2005, which included $119 million of expenses from the financing of the acquisition of Travelers. Additionally, as a result of the issuance of commercial paper, short term interest expense increased by $67 million. Corporate support expenses, which included advertising, start up costs for new products and information technology costs, were higher by $107 million, partially offset by lower integration costs of $95 million. As a result of growth in the business and higher interest rates, interest credited to bankholder deposits increased by $85 million at MetLife Bank. Legal related costs were higher by $8 million, predominantly from the reduction of previously established liabilities related to legal disputes during the 2005 period. Also included as a component of total expenses were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues. Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 Corporate & Other Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Income (loss) from continuing operations increased by $67 million, or 82%, to ($15) million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from ($82) million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, contributed $88 million of this increase which included $1 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from 105 Table of Contents continuing operations decreased by $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. Included in this decrease were lower investment losses of $69 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and the decrease of net investment losses, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $90 million. The 2005 period includes a $30 million benefit, net of income tax, associated with the reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999, and an $18 million benefit, net of income tax, associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000. The 2004 period includes a $105 million benefit associated with the resolution of issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Life and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Also included in the 2004 period was an expense related to a $32 million, net of income tax, contribution to the MetLife Foundation. Excluding the impact of these items, income from continuing operations decreased by $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. The decrease was primarily attributable to higher interest expense on debt (principally associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers acquisition), integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers, interest credited to bank holder deposits and legal related liabilities of $119 million, $76 million, $44 million and $4 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by an increase in net investment income of $107 million, and a decrease in corporate support expenses of $10 million, both of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits increased by $61 million over the comparable 2004 period due to the difference of finalizing the Companys 2004 tax return in 2005 when compared to finalizing the Companys 2003 tax return in 2004 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $376 million, or 97%, to $762 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $386 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $152 million to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, the increase of $224 million was primarily attributable to increases in income on fixed maturity securities due to improved yields from lengthening of the duration and a higher asset base, as well as increased income from other limited partnerships and mortgage loans on real estate. Also included as a component of total revenues were the intersegment eliminations which were offset within total expenses. Expenses Total expenses increased by $330 million, or 54%, to $940 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $610 million for the comparable 2004 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs, contributed $15 million to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 period includes a $47 million benefit associated with a reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999, a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to Metropolitan Lifes demutualization in 2000. The 2004 period includes a $50 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation, partially offset by a $22 million reduction of a liability associated with the resolution of all issues relating to the Internal Revenue Services audit of Metropolitan Life and its subsidiaries tax returns for the years 1997 1999. Excluding the impact of these items, total expenses increased by $418 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the comparable 2004 period. This increase was attributable to higher interest expense of $187 million as a result of the issuance of senior notes in 2004 and 2005, which included $129 million of expenses from the financing of the acquisition of Travelers. Integration costs associated with the acquisition of Travelers were $120 million. As a result of growth in the business, interest credited to bank holder deposits increased by $70 million at MetLife Bank. In addition, legal related liabilities increased by $5 million. These increases were offset by a reduction in corporate support expenses of $16 million. Also included as a component of total expenses was the elimination of intersegment amounts which was offset within total revenues. 106 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Capital RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit further regulatory action on an annual basis. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of the most recently referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles (Codification) in 2001 to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. The New York State Department of Insurance (the Department) has adopted Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in New York. Modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. Asset/Liability Management The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Financial Management and Oversight Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific Asset/Liability Management Committees (ALM Committees). The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. The Company establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. In executing these asset/liability matching strategies, management regularly reevaluates the estimates used in determining the approximate amounts and timing of payments to or on behalf of policyholders for insurance liabilities. Many of these estimates are inherently subjective and could impact the Companys ability to achieve its asset/liability management goals and objectives. Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Companys liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, excluding securities lending) was $7.7 billion and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling 12 month forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its cash needs under various scenarios that include the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many 107 Table of Contents of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including GICs, and certain deposit funds liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements beyond normal liquidity, the Company has multiple alternatives available based on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. The Companys ability to sell investment assets could be limited by accounting rules including rules relating to the intent and ability to hold impaired securities until the market value of those securities recovers. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a statutory legal entity are available to fund any obligation of the general account within that legal entity. Liquidity Sources Cash Flows from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and marketable fixed maturity and equity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending and dollar roll activities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had $186.5 billion and $179.0 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium term and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. At both December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had outstanding $1.4 billion in short term debt and at December 31, 2006 and 2005, had outstanding $10.0 billion and $9.5 billion in long term debt, respectively. Debt Issuances. On December 21, 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15, 2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make whole price. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not including, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of three month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. In connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding Company entered into a replacement capital covenant (RCC). As a part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). 108 Table of Contents On June 28, 2006, Timberlake Financial L.L.C. (Timberlake), a subsidiary of RGA, completed an offering of $850 million of Series A Floating Rate Insured Notes due June 2036, which is included in the Companys long term debt. Interest on the notes will accrue at an annual rate of 1 month LIBOR plus a base margin, payable monthly. The notes represent senior, secured indebtedness of Timberlake with no recourse to RGA or its other subsidiaries. Up to $150 million of additional notes may be offered in the future. The proceeds of the offering provide long term collateral to support Regulation XXX statutory reserves on 1.5 million term life insurance policies with guaranteed level premium periods reinsured by RGA Reinsurance Company, a U.S. subsidiary of RGA. MetLife Bank has entered into several funding agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the FHLB of NY) whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Banks residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks obligations under the repurchase agreements. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. The amount of the Companys liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $998 million and $855 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in long term debt. On December 8, 2005, RGA issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $400 million. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 6.75% up to but not including the scheduled redemption date. The securities may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make whole price. In the event the junior subordinated debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date of December 15, 2015, interest on these junior subordinated debentures will accrue at an annual rate of three month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.665%, payable quarterly in arrears. The final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2065. RGA has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during periods of deferral. On June 29, 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On June 23, 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States public market $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). MetLife Funding, Inc. (MetLife Funding), a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, Metropolitan Life has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At both December 31, 2006 and 2005, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $11 million. MetLife Funding raises cash from various funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of Metropolitan Life, to the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of Metropolitan Life and other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of $840 million and $456 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. Credit Facilities. The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2006. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and at December 31, 2006, 109 Table of Contents $3.0 billion of the facilities also served as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper programs. Information on these facilities as of December 31, 2006 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Borrower(s) Expiration Capacity Issuances Drawdowns Commitments (In millions) MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. April 2009 $ 1,500 (1) $ 487 $ $ 1,013 MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. April 2010 1,500 (1) 483 1,017 MetLife Bank, N.A July 2007 200 200 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated May 2007 29 29 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated September 2010 600 315 50 235 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated March 2011 39 28 11 Total $ 3,868 $ 1,285 $ 107 $ 2,476 (1) These facilities serve as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper programs. Committed Facilities. Information on the capacity and outstanding balances of all committed facilities as of December 31, 2006 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Maturity Account Party Expiration Capacity Issuances Commitments (Years) (In millions) MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina July 2010 (1) $ 2,000 $ 2,000 $ 4 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd., MetLife, Inc., & Missouri Re June 2016 (2) 500 490 10 10 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. June 2025 (1)(3) 225 225 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. March 2025 (1)(3) 250 250 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. June 2025 (1)(3) 325 58 267 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. December 2026 (1) 901 140 761 20 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. December 2027 (1) 650 330 320 21 Total $ 4,851 $ 3,493 $ 1,358 (1) The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. (2) Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and $200 million will expire no later than December 2015, March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. (3) On June 1, 2006, the letter of credit issuer elected to extend the initial stated termination date of each respective letter of credit to the respective dates indicated. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding $5.0 billion in letters of credit from various banks, of which $4.8 billion were part of credit and committed facilities. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Companys actual future cash funding requirements. Liquidity Uses Debt Repayments. The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured on December 1, 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured on May 15, 2005. Metropolitan Life repaid a $250 million 7% surplus note which matured on November 1, 2005. Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance 110 Table of Contents activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending and dollar roll activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006: More Than More Than Three Years One Year and and Less Less Than Less Than Than Five More Than Contractual Obligations Total One Year Three Years Years Five Years (In millions) Future policy benefits(1) $ 321,852 $ 5,982 $ 8,864 $ 10,160 $ 296,846 Policyholder account balances(2) 176,106 25,386 28,884 23,022 98,814 Other policyholder liabilities(3) 10,139 7,574 94 114 2,357 Short term debt(4) 1,457 1,457 Long term debt(4) 18,069 647 1,807 2,147 13,468 Junior subordinated debt securities(4) 6,618 210 2,440 214 3,754 Shares subject to mandatory redemption(4) 350 350 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions(5) 45,846 45,846 Commitments to lend funds(6) 8,934 7,583 579 397 375 Operating leases(7) 2,165 247 394 318 1,206 Other(8) 7,285 6,743 542 Total $ 598,821 $ 101,675 $ 43,062 $ 36,372 $ 417,712 (1) Future policyholder benefits include liabilities related to traditional whole life policies, term life policies, closeout and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, MTF agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long term disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within future policyholder benefits are contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death as well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, which is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses of $1.7 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above. Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities associated with property and casualty contracts of $2.2 billion have been included using an estimate of the ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid under property and casualty contracts is not determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, 111 Table of Contents which may vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years category displays estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years from the present date. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $321.9 billion exceeds the liability amount of $127.5 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. For the majority of the Companys insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under generally accepted accounting principles. Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table above due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Asset/Liability Management. (2) Policyholder account balances include liabilities related to conventional guaranteed investment contracts, guaranteed investment contracts associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total control accounts, bank deposits, individual and group universal life, variable universal life and company owned life insurance. Included within policyholder account balances are contracts where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so, as well as those where the timing of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, which is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting adjustments of $836 million have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above as they represent an accounting convention and not a contractual obligation. Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot rates. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $176.1 billion exceeds the liability amount of $133.5 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. See also comments under footnote 1 regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balances. 112 Table of Contents (3) Other policyholder liabilities is comprised of other policyholder funds, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related to these liabilities are as follows: (a) Other policyholder funds includes liabilities for incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group term life, long term disability, LTC, and dental; policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and health; premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to unearned revenue of approximately $1.6 billion have been excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above because they reflect an accounting convention and not a contractual obligation. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table above related to other policyholder funds is equal to the liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the one year or less category due to the short term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. (b) Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the table above in the less than one year category at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet. (c) The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long term projection of the performance of the closed block, management has reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. This was done to reflect the long duration of the liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment. (4) Amounts presented in the table above for short term debt, long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities and shares subject to mandatory redemption differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above also include interest on such obligations as described below. Short term debt consists principally of 90 day commercial paper, with a remaining maturity of approximately 17 days, and carries a variable rate of interest. The contractual obligation for short term debt presented in the table above represents the amounts due upon maturity of the commercial paper plus the related variable interest which is calculated using the prevailing rates at December 31, 2006 through the date of maturity without consideration of any further issuances of commercial paper upon maturity of the amounts outstanding at December 31, 2006. Long term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt is computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2006 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Junior subordinated debt bears interest at fixed interest rates through their respective redemption dates. Interest was computed using the stated rate on the obligation through the scheduled redemption date as it is the Companys expectation that the debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity date would increase the contractual obligation by $4.5 billion. Shares subject to mandatory redemption bears interest at fixed interest rates through their respective mandatory redemptions dates. Interest on shares subject to mandatory redemption was computed using the stated fixed rate on the obligation through maturity. Long term debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of $11 million, $24 million, $3 million and $24 million, in the less than one year, one to three years, three to five years and more than five years categories, respectively. (5) The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative transactions. As the securities lending transaction expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral is 113 Table of Contents uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the less than one year category in the table above. The Company also holds non cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of $453 million as of December 31, 2006. (6) The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities and bridge loans. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans is based on the expiration date of the commitment. As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the less than one year category in the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the less than one year category in the table above. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. (7) As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those leases obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Companys financial positions or results of operations. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. (8) Other includes those other liability balances which represent contractual obligations as well as other miscellaneous contractual obligations of $67 million not included elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the table above is principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other liabilities was sufficiently uncertain, the amounts were included within the less than one year category. The other liabilities presented in the table above differs from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by $5.2 billion due to the exclusion of items such as minority interests, legal contingency reserves, pension and postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income tax, accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. The net funded status of the Companys pension and other postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above. Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary contributions of $150 million to be made by the Company to the pension plan in 2007 and the discretionary contributions of $132 million, based on the next years expected gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2007. Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Companys cash flows. See also Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of the funds that are separately administered by the Company. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statements of income. The separate account liabilities will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to its consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2006. Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans, and capitalization. All material intercompany transactions 114 Table of Contents have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance as required. Support Agreements. Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with New England Life Insurance Company (NELICO) at the time Metropolitan Life merged with New England Mutual Life Insurance Company. Under the agreement, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause NELICO to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than the company action level RBC (or not less than 125% of the company action level RBC, if NELICO has a negative trend), as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the capital and surplus of NELICO was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. In connection with the Companys acquisition of the parent of General American Life Insurance Company (General American), Metropolitan Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with General American. Under the agreement, as subsequently amended, Metropolitan Life agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause General American to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 250% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the capital and surplus of General American was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. Metropolitan Life has also entered into arrangements for the benefit of some of its other subsidiaries and affiliates to assist such subsidiaries and affiliates in meeting various jurisdictions regulatory requirements regarding capital and surplus and security deposits. In addition, Metropolitan Life has entered into a support arrangement with respect to a subsidiary under which Metropolitan Life may become responsible, in the event that the subsidiary becomes the subject of insolvency proceedings, for the payment of certain reinsurance recoverables due from the subsidiary to one or more of its cedents in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable reinsurance agreements. General American has agreed to guarantee certain contractual obligations of its former subsidiaries, Paragon Life Insurance Company (which merged into Metropolitan Life in 2006), MetLife Investors Insurance Company (MetLife Investors), First MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California (which merged into MetLife Investors in 2006). In addition, General American has entered into a contingent reinsurance agreement with MetLife Investors. Under this agreement, in the event that MetLife Investors statutory capital and surplus is less than $10 million or total adjusted capital falls below 180% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, General American would assume as assumption reinsurance, subject to regulatory approvals and required consents, all of MetLife Investors life insurance policies and annuity contract liabilities. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the capital and surplus of MetLife Investors was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the capital and surplus of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amounts referenced above, and their total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. 115 Table of Contents The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited (MSMIC), an investment in Japan of which the Holding Company owns approximately 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. As of the date of the most recent calculation, the capital and surplus of MSMIC was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above. In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. (MIH), a subsidiary of the Holding Company, committed to the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority that it will provide or procure the provision of additional capital to MetLife General Insurance Limited (MGIL), an Australian subsidiary of MIH, to the extent necessary to enable MGIL to meet insurance capital adequacy and solvency requirements. In addition, MetLife International Insurance, Ltd. (MIIL), a Bermuda insurance company, was acquired as part of the Travelers transaction. In connection with the assumption of a block of business by MIIL from a company in liquidation in 1995, Citicorp Life Insurance Company (CLIC), an affiliate of MIIL and a subsidiary of the Holding Company, agreed with MIIL and the liquidator to make capital contributions to MIIL to ensure that, for so long as any policies in such block remain outstanding, MIIL remains solvent and able to honor the liabilities under such policies. As a result of the merger of CLIC into Metropolitan Life that occurred in October 2006, this became an obligation of Metropolitan Life. In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company also committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to maintain the minimum capital and surplus of MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina (MRSC), formerly The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company, at the greater of $250,000 or 10% of net loss reserves (loss reserves less DAC). Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Companys liquidity sources. Litigation. Various litigation, including putative or certified class actions, and various claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys consolidated financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Other. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. The nature of the Companys diverse product portfolio and customer base lessens the likelihood that normal operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity. Consolidated Cash Flows. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $1.4 billion to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $8.0 billion for the comparable 2005 period. The decrease in operating 116 Table of Contents cash flows is primarily due to reinsurance receivables related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses. Partially offsetting the decrease is an increase in operating cash flows in 2006 over the comparable 2005 period is primarily attributable to the acquisition of Travelers. Net cash provided by operating activities was $8.0 billion and $6.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $1.5 billion increase in operating cash flows in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Travelers, growth in disability, dental, LTC business, group life and retirement & savings, as well as continued growth in the annuity business. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $0.9 billion to $15.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $14.5 billion for the comparable 2005 period. Net cash provided by financing activities increased primarily as a result of an increase of $7.2 billion in the amount of securities lending cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program, a decrease in long term debt repayments of $0.7 billion and an increase of short term debt borrowings of $0.1 billion. Such increases were offset by decreases in financing cash flows resulting from a decrease in issuance of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt securities, and long term debt aggregating $5.7 billion which were principally used to finance the acquisition of Travelers in 2005 combined with a decrease of $0.9 billion associated with a decrease in net policyholder account balance deposits and an increase of $0.5 billion of treasury stock acquired under the share repurchase program which was resumed in the fourth quarter of 2006. Net cash provided by financing activities was $14.5 billion and $8.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $6.2 billion increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period was primarily attributable to the Holding Companys funding of the acquisition of Travelers through the issuance of long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities and preferred shares. In addition, there was an increase in the amount of securities lending cash collateral invested in connection with the program. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in net cash provided by PABs, the repayment of previously issued long term debt, the payment of common stock dividends, the payment of dividends on the preferred shares, the payment of debt and equity issuance costs, and the repurchase of its common stock by RGA. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $3.7 billion to $18.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $22.6 billion for the comparable 2005 period. Net cash used in investing activities in the prior year included cash used to acquire Travelers of $11.0 billion, less cash acquired of $0.9 billion for a net total cash paid of $10.1 billion, which was funded by $6.8 billion in securities issuances and $4.2 billion of cash provided by operations and the sale of invested assets. During the current year, cash available for investment as a result of cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program increased by $7.2 billion. Cash available from operations and available for investment decreased by $1.4 billion. Cash available for the purchase of invested assets increased by $4.3 billion as a result of the increase in securities lending activities of $7.2 billion as well as a decrease in the cash required for acquisitions of $4.2 billion, offset by the decrease in issuance of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt securities, and long term debt aggregating $5.7 billion as well as the decrease in cash flow from operations of $1.4 billion. Cash available for investing activities was used to increase purchases of fixed maturity securities, other invested assets, and short term investments, as well as increase the origination of mortgage and consumer loans and decrease net sales of real estate and real estate joint ventures and equity securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $22.6 billion and $14.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $8.2 billion increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2005 over the comparable 2004 period was primarily due to the acquisition of Travelers and CitiStreet Associates, the increase in net purchases of fixed maturity securities and an increase in the origination of mortgage and consumer loans, primarily in commercial loans, as compared to the 2004 period. This was partially offset by an increase in repayments of mortgage and consumer loans, an increase in sales of equity real estate and a decrease in the cash used for short term investments. In addition, the 2005 period includes proceeds associated with the sale of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia. 117 Table of Contents The Holding Company Capital Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies Capital. The Holding Company and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking regulatory agencies, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Banks risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory agencies well capitalized standards and all of MetLife, Inc.s risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the adequately capitalized standards. The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: MetLife, Inc. RBC Ratios Bank Holding Company December 31, Regulatory Regulatory Requirements Requirements 2006 2005 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 9.89% 9.57% 8.00% 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 9.51% 9.21% 4.00% 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.55% 5.39% 4.00% n/a MetLife Bank RBC Ratios Bank December 31, Regulatory Regulatory Requirements Requirements 2006 2005 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 11.44% 11.78% 8.00% 10.00% Tier 1 RBC Ratio 10.88% 11.22% 4.00% 6.00% Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.98% 5.96% 4.00% 5.00% Liquidity Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and is provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to liquidity. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings. 118 Table of Contents Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. Liquidity Sources Dividends. The primary source of the Holding Companys liquidity is dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid to the Holding Company without insurance regulatory approval and dividends paid to the Holding Company: 2005 2006 2007 Permitted w/o Permitted w/o Permitted w/o Company Approval(1) Paid(2) Approval(1) Paid(2) Approval(5) Metropolitan Life $ 880 $ 3,200 $ 863 $ 863 $ 919 MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut $ $ $ $ 917 (3 ) $ 690 Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company $ 54 $ 927 $ 85 $ 2,300 (4 ) $ 104 Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company $ 187 $ 400 $ 178 $ 300 $ 16 (1) Reflects dividend amounts paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval. (2) Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory approval. (3) Includes a return of capital of $259 million. (4) This dividend reflects the proceeds associated with the sale of Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties to be used for general corporate purposes. (5) Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2007 without prior regulatory approval. If paid before a specified date during 2007, some or all of such dividend amount may require regulatory approval. MetLife Mexico S.A. paid $116 million in dividends to the Holding Company for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, there were returns of capital of $154 million to the Holding Company from other subsidiaries. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company had $3.9 billion and $668 million in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company had $616 million and $961 million in short term debt outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company had $7.0 billion and $7.3 billion 119 Table of Contents of unaffiliated long term debt outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company had $500 million and $286 million of affiliated long term debt outstanding, respectively. On April 27, 2005, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration statement (the 2005 Registration Statement) with the SEC, covering $11 billion of securities. On May 27, 2005, the 2005 Registration Statement became effective, permitting the offer and sale, from time to time, of a wide range of debt and equity securities. In addition to the $11 billion of securities registered on the 2005 Registration Statement, $3.9 billion of registered but unissued securities remained available for issuance by the Holding Company as of such date, from the $5.0 billion shelf registration statement filed with the SEC during the first quarter of 2004, permitting the Holding Company to issue an aggregate of $14.9 billion of registered securities. The terms of any offering will be established at the time of the offering. During December 2006, the Holding Company issued $1.25 billion of junior subordinated debentures under the 2005 Registration Statement. During June 2005, in connection with the Holding Companys acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company issued $2.0 billion senior notes, $2.07 billion of common equity units and $2.1 billion of preferred stock under the 2005 Registration Statement. In addition, $0.7 billion of senior notes were sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, a portion of which may be resold in the United States under the 2005 Registration Statement. Remaining capacity under the 2005 Registration Statement after such issuances is $5.4 billion. Debt Issuances. On December 21, 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances for further information. On September 29, 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 6.07% maturing in 2016. On March 31, 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.70% maturing in 2016. On December 30, 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.24% maturing in 2015. On June 23, 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States public market $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). On June 29, 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 120 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Holding Companys outstanding senior notes issuances, excluding any premium or discount: Issue Date Principal Interest Rate Maturity (In millions) June 2005 $ 1,000 5.00 % 2015 June 2005 $ 1,000 5.70 % 2035 June 2005(1) $ 783 5.25 % 2020 December 2004(1) $ 686 5.38 % 2024 June 2004 $ 350 5.50 % 2014 June 2004 $ 750 6.38 % 2034 November 2003 $ 500 5.00 % 2013 November 2003 $ 200 5.88 % 2033 December 2002 $ 400 5.38 % 2012 December 2002 $ 600 6.50 % 2032 November 2001 $ 750 6.13 % 2011 (1) This amount represents the translation of pounds sterling into U.S. dollars using the noon buying rate on December 29, 2006 of $1.9586 as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units for a description of $2,134 million of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the issuance of common equity units. Preferred Stock. On June 13, 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the Series A preferred shares) with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million. On June 16, 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares of 6.50% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B preferred shares, together with the Series A preferred shares, collectively, the Preferred Shares) with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by the Holding Companys Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of: (i) 1.00% above three month LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Companys common stock or any other securities ranking junior to the Preferred Shares unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for. The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and shareholders equity levels. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn sufficient operating income. The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding Company. 121 Table of Contents The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date, subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be redeemable at the Holding Companys option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus declared and unpaid dividends. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Uses Dividends. Common Equity Units. In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public offering on June 21, 2005. Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per unit and consists of: a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II (Series A Trust), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000. a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series B trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust III (Series B Trust and, together with the Series A Trust, the Trusts), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000. a stock purchase contract under which the holder of the common equity unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $12.50. The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $64 million in trust common securities issued equally by the Trusts. The common and preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A and Series B Trusts will make quarterly distributions on the common and preferred securities at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively. The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. The guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contract. The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates to provide the holders of the common equity units with the proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the Series A trust preferred securities and through February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a junior subordinated debt security payable on 122 Table of Contents August 15, 2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions. Each stock purchase contract requires (i) the Holding Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per stock purchase contract thereafter; and (ii) the holder of the common equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock during a specified 20 day period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Holding Company will receive proceeds of $2,070 million and issue between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of common stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at the option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate. Credit Facilities. The Holding Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $3.0 billion ($1.5 billion expiring in each of 2009 and 2010, which it shares with MetLife Funding) as of December 31, 2006. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at varying rates as stated in the agreements. These facilities are primarily used for general corporate purposes and as back up lines of credit for the borrowers commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings against these credit facilities. At December 31, 2006, $970 million of the unsecured credit facilities support the letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company, all of which is in support of letters of credit issued on behalf of the Holding Company. Committed Facilities. Information on the capacity and outstanding balances of all committed facilities as of December 31, 2006 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Maturity Account Party Expiration Capacity Issuances Commitments (Years) (In millions) MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina July 2010 (1) $ 2,000 $ 2,000 $ 4 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd., MetLife, Inc., & Missouri Re June 2016 (2) 500 490 10 10 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. June 2025 (1)(3) 225 225 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. March 2025 (1)(3) 250 250 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. June 2025 (1)(3) 325 58 267 19 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. December 2026 (1) 901 140 761 20 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd.. December 2027 (1) 650 330 320 21 Total $ 4,851 $ 3,493 $ 1,358 (1) The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. (2) Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and $200 million will expire no later than December 2015, March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. (3) On June 1, 2006, the letter of credit issuer elected to extend the initial stated termination date of each respective letter of credit to the respective dates indicated. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2006, the Holding Company had $970 million in outstanding letters of credit from various banks. Since commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Holding Companys actual future cash funding requirements. 123 Table of Contents Liquidity Uses The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the Holding Companys common stock. Dividends. The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock: Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) October 24, 2006 November 6, 2006 December 15, 2006 $ 0.59 $ 450 October 25, 2005 November 7, 2005 December 15, 2005 $ 0.52 $ 394 Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding Companys Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Preferred Shares is as follows: Dividend Series A Series A Series B Series B Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) November 15, 2006 November 30, 2006 December 15, 2006 $ 0.4038125 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 15, 2006 August 31, 2006 September 15, 2006 $ 0.4043771 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 May 16, 2006 May 31, 2006 June 15, 2006 $ 0.3775833 $ 9 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 March 6, 2006 February 28, 2006 March 15, 2006 $ 0.3432031 $ 9 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 November 15, 2005 November 30, 2005 December 15, 2005 $ 0.3077569 $ 8 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 22, 2005 August 31, 2005 September 15, 2005 $ 0.2865690 $ 7 $ 0.4017361 $ 24 See Subsequent Events. Affiliated Capital Transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company invested an aggregate of $1.8 billion and $904 million, respectively, in various affiliated transactions. On December 12, 2005, RGA repurchased 1.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of $76 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to RGA from third parties and purchased the shares in the open market over the subsequent few months to return to the lenders. RGA would either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the shares. These repurchases resulted in an increase in the Companys ownership percentage of RGA to approximately 53% at December 31, 2005 from approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. In February 2006, the final purchase price was determined, resulting in a cash settlement substantially equal to the aggregate cost. RGA recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. At December 31, 2006, the Companys ownership was approximately 53% of RGA. 124 Table of Contents The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to affiliates and consisted of the following at: Interest December 31, Affiliate Rate Maturity Date 2006 2005 (In millions) Metropolitan Life 7.13% December 15, 2032 $ 400 $ 400 Metropolitan Life 7.13% January 15, 2033 100 100 Metropolitan Life 5.00% December 31, 2007 800 800 MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company 7.35% April 1, 2035 400 400 Total $ 1,700 $ 1,700 Debt Repayments. The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured on December 1, 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured on May 15, 2005. Share Repurchase. On October 26, 2004, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program, of which $216 million remained as of December 31, 2006. On February 27, 2007, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program. Upon the date of this authorization, the amount remaining under these repurchase programs is approximately $1.2 billion. Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and in privately negotiated transactions. As a result of the acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company had suspended its common stock repurchase activity. During the fourth quarter of 2006, as announced, the Holding Company resumed its share repurchase program. On December 1, 2006, the Holding Company repurchased 3,993,024 shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $232 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In February 2007, the Holding Company paid a cash adjustment of $8 million for a final purchase price of $240 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. On December 16, 2004, the Holding Company repurchased 7,281,553 shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $300 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In April 2005, the Holding Company received a cash adjustment of $7 million based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the common stock, for a final purchase price of $293 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. The following table summarizes the 2006, 2005 and 2004 common stock repurchase activity of the Holding Company, which includes the accelerated common stock repurchase agreements in the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2004: December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, except number of shares) Shares repurchased 8,608,824 26,373,952 Cost $ 500 $ $ 1,000 Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of MetLife, Inc.s common stock. Support Agreements. The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, 125 Table of Contents as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. As of the date of the most recent statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the capital and surplus of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amounts referenced above, and their total adjusted capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC based amount calculated at December 31, 2006. In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, the Holding Company committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to maintain the minimum capital and surplus of MRSC, formerly The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company, at the greater of $250,000 or 10% of net loss reserves (loss reserves less deferred policy acquisition costs). The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with MSMIC, an investment in Japan of which the Holding Company owns approximately 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. As of the date of the most recent calculation, the capital and surplus of MSMIC was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above. Based on managements analysis and comparison of its current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, its portfolio of liquid assets, anticipated securities issuances and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses and meet its cash needs. Subsequent Events On February 27, 2007, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Uses Share Repurchase for further information. On February 16, 2007, the Holding Companys Board of Directors announced dividends of $0.3975000 per share, for a total of $10 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Holding Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2007, the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2007 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2007. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. Mortgage Loan Commitments The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $4.0 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The purpose of these 126 Table of Contents loans is to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities and Bridge Loans The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities and bridge loans. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1.9 billion and $346 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The purpose of these commitments and any related fundings is to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. Lease Commitments The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other equipment. The Companys commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Uses Investment and Other. Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit for further descriptions of such arrangements. Share Based Arrangements In connection with the issuance of the common equity units, the Holding Company has issued forward stock purchase contracts under which the Holding Company will issue, in 2008 and 2009, between 39.0 and 47.8 million shares, depending upon whether the share price is greater than $43.45 and less than $53.10. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units. Guarantees In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $2 billion, with a cumulative maximum of $3.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by laws. Also, the Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Companys interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future. The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, 127 Table of Contents the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company did not record any additional liabilities for indemnities, guarantees and commitments. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with respect to indemnities provided in connection with a certain disposition. The Companys recorded liabilities at December 31, 2006 and 2005 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were $5 million and $9 million, respectively. In connection with synthetically created investment transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations requiring payment of principal due in exchange for the referenced credit obligation, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit events for the referenced entities. In the event of a specified credit event, the Companys maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced credits becomes worthless, was $396 million at December 31, 2006. The credit default swaps expire at various times during the next ten years. Other Commitments MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (MICC) is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the FHLB of Boston) and holds $70 million of common stock of the FHLB of Boston, which is included in equity securities on the Companys consolidated balance sheets. MICC has also entered into several funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on MICCs residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MICCs obligations under the funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The funding agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MICC, the FHLB of Bostons recovery is limited to the amount of MICCs liability under the outstanding funding agreements. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was $926 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in PABs. MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $54 million and $43 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in equity securities on the Companys consolidated balance sheet. MetLife Bank has also entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Banks residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks obligations under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. The amount of the Companys liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $998 million and $855 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in long term debt. Metropolitan Life is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $136 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY, which is included in equity securities on the Companys consolidated balance sheet. Metropolitan Life had no funding agreements with the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2006 or 2005. Collateral for Securities Lending The Company has non cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $100 million and $207 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 128 Table of Contents Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Description of Plans Plan Description Overview The Subsidiaries sponsor and or administer various qualified and non qualified defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30 year U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of December 31, 2006, virtually all of the Subsidiaries obligations have been calculated using the traditional formula. The non qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits, in excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to certain executive level employees. The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for a covered subsidiary, may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees or their beneficiaries contribute a portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy postretirement medical benefits. Financial Summary Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), as amended, establishes the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the projected pension benefit obligation (PBO) is defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation (ABO) is the actuarial present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary levels. The PBO and ABO of the pension plans are set forth in the following section. Prior to December 31, 2006, SFAS 87 also required the recognition of an additional minimum pension liability and an intangible asset (limited to unrecognized prior service cost) if the market value of pension plan assets was less than the ABO at the measurement date. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability over the allowable intangible asset was charged, net of taxes, to accumulated other comprehensive income. The Companys additional minimum pension liability was $78 million, and the intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability over the intangible asset of $66 million ($41 million, net of income tax) was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006, the Companys additional minimum pension liability was $92 million. The minimum pension liability of $59 million, net of income tax of $33 million, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions, as amended, (SFAS 106), establishes the accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations (EPBO) which represents the actuarial present value of all postretirement benefits expected to be paid after retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike the PBO for pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligations (APBO) represents the actuarial present value of future postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a particular date. The APBO is recorded in the financial statements and is set forth below. As described more fully in Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r) (SFAS 158), effective December 31, 2006. Upon adoption, the Company was required to recognize in the consolidated balance sheet the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Funded status is measured as the difference between the fair 129 Table of Contents value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, which is the PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans. The change to recognize funded status eliminated the additional minimum pension liability provisions of SFAS 87. In addition, the Company recognized as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net transition asset or obligation that have not yet been included in net periodic benefit cost as of the date of adoption. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total consolidated stockholders equity. The following table summarizes the adjustments to the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet in order to effect the adoption of SFAS 158. December 31, 2006 Additional Minimum Pre Pension Adoption of Post SFAS 158 Liability SFAS 158 SFAS 158 Balance Sheet Caption Adjustments Adjustment Adjustment Adjustments (In millions) Other assets: Prepaid pension benefit cost $ 1,937 $ $ (993 ) $ 944 Other assets: Intangible asset $ 12 $ (12 ) $ $ Other liabilities: Accrued pension benefit cost $ (505 ) $ (14 ) $ (79 ) $ (598 ) Other liabilities: Accrued other postretirement benefit cost $ (802 ) $ $ (99 ) $ (901 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), before income tax: Defined benefit plans $ (66 ) $ (26 ) $ (1,171 ) $ (1,263 ) Minority interest $ $ 8 Deferred income tax $ 8 $ 419 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax: Defined benefit plans $ (41 ) $ (18 ) $ (744 ) $ (803 ) A December 31 measurement date is used for all the Companys defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 130 Table of Contents The benefit obligations and funded status of the Subsidiaries defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as determined in accordance with the applicable provisions described above, were as follows: December 31, 2006 Other Postretirement Pension Benefits Benefits 2006 2005 2006 2005 (In millions) Benefit obligation at end of year $ 5,959 $ 5,766 $ 2,073 $ 2,176 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 6,305 5,518 1,172 1,093 Funded status at end of year $ 346 (248 ) $ (901 ) (1,083 ) Unrecognized net actuarial (gains) losses 1,528 377 Unrecognized prior service cost (credit) 54 (122 ) Unrecognized net asset at transition 1 Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost recognized $ 1,334 $ (827 ) Components of net amount recognized: Qualified plan prepaid benefit cost $ 1,696 $ Non qualified plan accrued benefit cost (362 ) (827 ) Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost recognized 1,334 (827 ) Intangible asset 12 Additional minimum pension liability (78 ) Net amount recognized $ 1,268 $ (827 ) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Other assets $ 944 $ 1,708 $ $ Other liabilities (598 ) (440 ) (901 ) (827 ) Net amount recognized $ 346 $ 1,268 $ (901 ) $ (827 ) Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss: Net actuarial (gains) losses $ 1,123 $ $ 328 $ Prior service cost (credit) 41 (230 ) Net asset at transition 1 Additional minimum pension liability 66 1,164 66 99 Deferred income tax and minority interest (423 ) (25 ) (37 ) $ 741 $ 41 $ 62 $ 131 Table of Contents The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows: Qualified Plan Non Qualified Plan Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 (In millions) Aggregate fair value of plan assets (principally Company contracts) $ 6,305 $ 5,518 $ $ $ 6,305 $ 5,518 Aggregate projected benefit obligation 5,381 5,258 578 508 5,959 5,766 Over (under) funded status $ 924 $ 260 $ (578 ) $ (508 ) $ 346 $ (248 ) The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,505 million and $5,349 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,respectively. Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Projected benefit obligation $ 594 $ 538 Accumulated benefit obligation $ 501 $ 449 Fair value of plan assets $ $ 19 Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows: December 31, Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2006 2005 2006 2005 (In millions) Projected benefit obligation $ 623 $ 538 $ 2,073 $ 2,176 Fair value of plan assets $ 25 $ 19 $ 1,172 $ 1,093 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Pension Plan Obligations Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate used to determine the present value of future benefit payments, the expected rate of compensation increases and average expected retirement age. Assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations were as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 Weighted average discount rate 6.00% 5.82% Rate of compensation increase 3% 8% 3% 8% Average expected retirement age 61 61 The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate PBO when due. The yield of this hypothetical portfolio, constructed of bonds rated AA or better by Moodys Investors Services resulted in a discount rate of approximately 6.00% and 5.82% for the defined pension plans as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 132 Table of Contents A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the PBO. This increase (decrease) to the PBO is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 2006 PBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the PBO of approximately $180 million. At the end of 2006, total net actuarial losses were $1,123 million, as compared to $1,528 million in 2005. The majority of these net actuarial losses are due to lower discount rates in recent years. These losses will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of 2006, the average remaining service period of active employees was 8.2 years for the pension plans. As the benefits provided under the defined pension plans are calculated as a percentage of future earnings, an assumption of future compensation increases is required to determine the projected benefit obligation. These rates are derived through periodic analysis of historical demographic data conducted by an independent actuarial firm. The last review of such data was conducted using salary information through 2003 and the Company believes that no circumstances have subsequently occurred that would result in a material change to the compensation rate assumptions. Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate, the healthcare cost trend rate and the average expected retirement age. The determination of the discount rate and the average expected retirement age are substantially consistent with the determination described previously for the pension plans. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the APBO were as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 Pre Medicare eligible claims 9.0% down to 5% in 2014 9.5% down to 5% in 2014 Medicare eligible claims 11.0% down to 5% in 2018 11.5% down to 5% in 2018 Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: One Percent One Percent Increase Decrease (In millions) Effect on total of service and interest cost components $ 14 $ (12 ) Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation $ 176 $ (147 ) A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the APBO. This increase (decrease) to the APBO is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 2006 APBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the APBO of approximately $60 million. At the end of 2006, total net actuarial losses were $328 million, as compared to $377 million in 2005. The majority of the net actuarial losses are due to lower discount rates in recent years, an increase in expected healthcare inflation and changes in demographic assumptions. These losses will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the other postretirement benefit plans. At the end of 2006, the average remaining service period of active employees was 9.6 years for the other postretirement benefit plans. The Company began receiving subsidies on prescription drug benefits during 2006 under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Prescription Drug Act). The APBO was remeasured effective July 1, 2004 in order to determine the effect of the expected subsidies on net periodic other postretirement benefit cost. As a result, the APBO was reduced by $213 million at July 1, 2004. A summary of the 133 Table of Contents reduction to the APBO and related reductions in the components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost is as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Cumulative reduction in benefit obligation: Beginning of year $ 298 $ 230 $ Service cost 6 6 3 Interest cost 19 16 6 Net actuarial gains (losses) 15 46 221 Prescription drug subsidy (10 ) End of year $ 328 $ 298 $ 230 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Reduction in net periodic benefit cost: Service cost $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 Interest cost 19 16 6 Amortization of net actuarial gains (losses) 30 23 8 Total reduction in net periodic benefit cost $ 55 $ 45 $ 17 The Company received subsidies of $8 million for prescription claims processed from January 1, 2006 through September 30, 2006 and expects to receive an additional $2 million in 2007 for prescription claims processed October 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006. Pension and Other Postretirement Net Periodic Benefit Cost Pension Cost Net periodic pension cost is comprised of the following: i) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the projected pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. ii) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the projected pension benefit obligation at the end of each year. iii) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension fund assets in a particular year. iv) Amortization of Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to pension benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods, these costs are amortized to pension expense over the expected service years of the employees. v) Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on pension plan assets or projected pension benefit obligation during a particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the projected pension benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets, they are amortized into pension expense over the expected service years of the employees. 134 Table of Contents The Subsidiaries recognized pension expense of $180 million in 2006 as compared to $146 million in 2005 and $129 million in 2004. The major components of net periodic pension cost described above were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Service cost $ 163 $ 142 $ 129 Interest cost 335 318 311 Expected return on plan assets (454 ) (446 ) (428 ) Amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses 125 116 101 Amortization of prior service cost (credit) 11 16 16 Net periodic benefit cost $ 180 $ 146 $ 129 The increase in expense was primarily a result of both increases in service and interest cost and amortization of net actuarial losses resulting largely from lower discount rates, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the expected return on plan assets due to a larger plan assets base. The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are $54 million and $12 million, respectively. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic pension cost was 5.82%, 5.83% and 6.10% for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The weighted average expected rate of return on pension plan assets used to calculate the net periodic pension cost for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 8.25%, 8.50% and 8.50%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the pension plan in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Based on the December 31, 2006 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of $15 million for the pension plans. Other Postretirement Benefit Cost The net periodic other postretirement benefit cost consists of the following: i) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the expected postretirement plan benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. ii) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the expected postretirement benefit obligation at the end of each year. iii) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated other postretirement fund assets in a particular year. iv) Amortization of Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to other postretirement benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods these costs are amortized to other postretirement benefit expense over the expected service years of the employees. 135 Table of Contents v) Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on other postretirement benefit plan assets or expected postretirement plan benefit obligation during a particular year. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets, they are amortized into other postretirement benefit expense over the expected service years of the employees. The Subsidiaries recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $60 million in 2006 as compared to $77 million in 2005 and $62 million in 2004. The major components of net periodic other postretirement benefit cost described above were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Service cost $ 35 $ 37 $ 32 Interest cost 117 121 119 Expected return on plan assets (79 ) (79 ) (77 ) Amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses 23 15 7 Amortization of prior service cost (credit) (36 ) (17 ) (19 ) Net periodic benefit cost $ 60 $ 77 $ 62 The increase in expense from 2004 to 2005 was primarily a result of increases in service and interest cost as well as increased amortization of net actuarial losses resulting largely from lower discount rates. Despite a continued increase in amortization of net actuarial losses due to lower discount rates in recent years, the other postretirement benefit expense decreased from 2005 to 2006 due to changes in plan benefits that resulted in decreased service and interest cost and increases in amortization of prior service credits. The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for the other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are $14 million and $36 million, respectively. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic postretirement cost was 5.82%, 5.98% and 6.20% for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets used to calculate the net other postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 7.42%, 7.51% and 7.91%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the other postretirement plans in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Based on the December 31, 2006 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of $3 million for the other postretirement plans. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets Pension Plan Assets Substantially all assets of the pension plans are invested within group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $6,205 million and $5,432 million as of December 31, 2006 136 Table of Contents and 2005, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated. Net assets invested in separate accounts are stated at the aggregate fair value of units of participation. Such value reflects accumulated contributions, dividends and realized and unrealized investment gains or losses apportioned to such contributions, less withdrawals, distributions, allocable expenses relating to the purchase, sale and maintenance of the assets and an allocable part of such separate accounts investment expenses. Separate account investments in fixed income and equity securities are generally carried at published market value, or if published market values are not readily available, at estimated market values. Investments in short term fixed income securities are generally reflected as cash equivalents and carried at fair value. Real estate investments are carried at estimated fair value based on appraisals performed by third party real estate appraisal firms, and generally, determined by discounting projected cash flows over periods of time and at interest rates deemed appropriate for each investment. Information on the physical value of the property and the sales prices of comparable properties is used to corroborate fair value estimates. Estimated fair value of hedge fund net assets is generally determined by third party pricing vendors using quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models which are affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market supply and demand, market volatility and liquidity. The following table summarizes the actual and target weighted average allocations of pension plan assets within the separate accounts: December 31, Weighted Weighted Average Average Actual Target Allocation Allocation 2006 2005 2007 Asset Category Equity securities 42 % 47 % 30% 65% Fixed maturities 42 % 37 % 20% 70% Other 16 % 16 % 0% 25% Total 100 % 100 % Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets Substantially all assets of the other postretirement benefit plans are invested within life insurance and reserve contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $1,116 million and $1,039 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated. The valuation of separate accounts and the investments within such separate accounts invested in by the other postretirement plans are similar to that described in the preceding section on pension plans. 137 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the actual and target weighted average allocations of other postretirement benefit plan assets within the separate accounts: December 31, Weighted Weighted Average Average Actual Target Allocation Allocation 2006 2005 2007 Asset Category Equity securities 37 % 42 % 30% 45% Fixed maturities 57 % 53 % 45% 70% Other 6 % 5 % 0% 10% Total 100 % 100 % Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions. Funding and Cash Flows of Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Pension Plan Obligations It is the Subsidiaries practice to make contributions to the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding requirements of the ERISA, as amended, and or to maintain a fully funded ABO. In accordance with such practice, no contributions were required for the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. No contributions will be required for 2007. The Subsidiaries elected to make discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plans of $350 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. No contributions were made during the year ended December 31, 2005. The Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary contributions of $150 million in 2007. Benefit payments due under the non qualified pension plans are funded from the Subsidiaries general assets as they become due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled $38 million and $35 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These benefit payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in 2007. Gross pension benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be as follows: Pension Benefits (In millions) 2007 $ 337 2008 $ 349 2009 $ 367 2010 $ 372 2011 $ 385 2012 2016 $ 2,141 Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Other postretirement benefits represent a non vested, non guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current regulations do not require specific funding levels for these benefits. While the Subsidiaries have funded such plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries practice to use their general assets to pay claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. These payments totaled $152 million and $160 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 138 Table of Contents The Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of $132 million, based upon expected gross benefit payments, towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2007. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such payments. Gross other postretirement benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to be as follows: Gross Prescription Net Benefits Drug Subsidies Benefits (In millions) 2007 $ 132 $ (14 ) $ 118 2008 $ 137 $ (14 ) $ 123 2009 $ 142 $ (15 ) $ 127 2010 $ 148 $ (16 ) $ 132 2011 $ 154 $ (16 ) $ 138 2012 2016 $ 837 $ (98 ) $ 739 Insolvency Assessments Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments are as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Other Assets: Premium tax offset for future undiscounted assessments $ 45 $ 45 Premium tax offsets currently available for paid assessments 7 8 Receivable for reimbursement of paid assessments(1) 10 10 $ 62 $ 63 Liability: Insolvency assessments $ 90 $ 90 (1) The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. Assessments levied against the Company were $2 million, $4 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Effects of Inflation The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. 139 Table of Contents Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans by requiring the: (i) recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans; (ii) recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption; (iii) recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a component of other comprehensive income; (iv) measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the statement of financial position; and (v) disclosure of additional information about the effects on the employers statement of financial position. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total consolidated stockholders equity. As the Companys measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans is already December 31 there is no impact of adoption due to changes in measurement date. Stock Compensation Plans As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental application guidance issued by the SEC in Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share Based Payment (SAB 107) using the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of all stock based transactions be measured at fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock based awards as prescribed by SFAS 123 on a prospective basis effective January 1, 2003, and prior to January 1, 2003, accounted for its stock based awards to employees under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. The Company did not modify the substantive terms of any existing awards prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r). Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all stock based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(r). The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations as all stock based awards accounted for under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003. As required by SFAS 148, and carried forward in the provisions of SFAS 123(r), the Company discloses the pro forma impact as if stock based awards accounted for under APB 25 had been accounted for under the fair value method. SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock based awards to be recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in accounting policy was not significant to the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. 140 Table of Contents Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock based awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options within operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options be classified and reported as a financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r). Derivative Financial Instruments The Company has adopted guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows: Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments (SFAS 155). SFAS 155 amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging (SFAS 133) and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (SFAS 140). SFAS 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other changes, SFAS 155: (i) clarifies which interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (ii) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation; (iii) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and (iv) amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial interest. The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets (Issue B40). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest rate related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required other than an embedded derivative that results solely from the embedded call options in the underlying financial assets. The adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38, Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option (Issue B38) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor (Issue B39). Issue B38 clarifies that the potential settlement of a debtors obligation to a creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39 clarifies that an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor will recover substantially all of its initial net investment. The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 141 Table of Contents Other Pronouncements Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108). SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality. SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to initially apply its provisions by either restating prior financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 05 7, Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded in Debt Instruments and Related Issues (EITF 05 7). EITF 05 7 provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification. The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an embedded conversion option upon modification should be included in the analysis of EITF Issue No. 96 19, Debtors Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments, to determine whether a modification or extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value of a conversion option should be recognized upon the modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid in capital. The adoption of EITF 05 7 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 05 8, Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature (EITF 05 8). EITF 05 8 concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for the basis difference should result in an adjustment to additional paid in capital. EITF 05 8 was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue No. 98 5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, and EITF Issue No. 00 27, Application of Issue No. 98 5 to Certain Convertible Instruments. The adoption of EITF 05 8 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 (SFAS 154). SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long lived, non financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04 5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights (EITF 04 5). EITF 04 5 provides a framework for determining whether a general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on substantive rights. EITF 04 5 was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed partnerships and for any pre existing limited partnerships that modified their partnership agreements after that date. For all other limited partnerships, EITF 04 5 required adoption by January 1, 2006 through a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening equity or applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of EITF 04 5 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 142 Table of Contents Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance in FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 140 2, Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140 (FSP 140 2). FSP 140 2 clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under FSP 140 2, the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event outside the control of the transferor. The adoption of FSP 140 2 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 (SFAS 153). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 05 6, Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements (EITF 05 6). EITF 05 6 provides guidance on determining the amortization period for leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required by EITF 05 6, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1). EITF 03 1 provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method should be considered other than temporary and recognized in income. EITF 03 1 also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity securities classified as available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, that are impaired at the balance sheet date but for which an other than temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of other than temporary impairment but has issued FSP Nos. FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1), which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired as set forth in EITF 03 1. As required by FSP 115 1, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis, which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures. In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (FSP 109 2). The AJCA introduced a one time dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer. FSP 109 2 provides companies additional time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously been recorded. As of January 1, 2006, the repatriation provision of the AJCA no longer applies to the Company. Effective July 1, 2004, the Company prospectively adopted FSP No. FAS 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (FSP 106 2). FSP 106 2 provides accounting guidance to employers that sponsor postretirement healthcare plans that provide prescription drug benefits. The Company began receiving subsidies on prescription drug benefits during 2006 under the Prescription Drug Act based on the Companys determination that the prescription drug benefits offered under certain postretirement plans are actuarially equivalent to the benefits offered under Medicare Part D. The postretirement benefit plan assets and accumulated benefit obligation were remeasured to determine the effect of the expected subsidies on net periodic postretirement benefit cost. As a result, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was reduced by $213 million at July 1, 2004. 143 Table of Contents Effective July 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). EITF 03 16 provides guidance regarding whether a limited liability company should be viewed as similar to a corporation or similar to a partnership for purposes of determining whether a noncontrolling investment should be accounted for using the cost method or the equity method of accounting. EITF 03 16 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective April 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03 6, Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128 (EITF 03 6). EITF 03 6 provides guidance on determining whether a security should be considered a participating security for purposes of computing earnings per common share and how earnings should be allocated to the participating security. EITF 03 6 did not have an impact on the Companys earnings per common share calculations or amounts. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted SOP 03 1 as interpreted by a Technical Practice Aid (TPA), issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and FSP No. FAS 97 1, Situations in Which Paragraphs 17(b) and 20 of FASB Statement No 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, Permit or Require Accrual of an Unearned Revenue Liability. SOP 03 1 provides guidance on: (i) the classification and valuation of long duration contract liabilities; (ii) the accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and valuation. As a result of the adoption of SOP 03 1, effective January 1, 2004, the Company decreased the liability for future policyholder benefits for changes in the methodology relating to various guaranteed death and annuitization benefits and for determining liabilities for certain universal life insurance contracts by $4 million, which was reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. This amount is net of corresponding changes in DAC, including VOBA and unearned revenue liability, under certain variable annuity and life contracts and income tax. Certain other contracts sold by the Company provide for a return through periodic crediting rates, surrender adjustments or termination adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets owned by the Company. To the extent that such contracts are not accounted for as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS 133 and not already credited to the contract account balance, under SOP 03 1 the change relating to the fair value of the referenced pool of assets is recorded as a liability with the change in the liability recorded as policyholder benefits and claims. Prior to the adoption of SOP 03 1, the Company recorded the change in such liability as other comprehensive income. At adoption, this change decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by $63 million, net of income tax, which were recorded as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, costs associated with enhanced or bonus crediting rates to contractholders must be deferred and amortized over the life of the related contract using assumptions consistent with the amortization of DAC. Since the Company followed a similar approach prior to adoption of SOP 03 1, the provisions of SOP 03 1 relating to sales inducements had no significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In accordance with SOP 03 1s guidance for the reporting of certain separate accounts, at adoption, the Company also reclassified $1.7 billion of separate account assets to general account investments and $1.7 billion of separate account liabilities to future policy benefits and PABs. This reclassification decreased net income and increased other comprehensive income by $27 million, net of income tax, which were reported as cumulative effects of changes in accounting. As a result of the adoption of SOP 03 1, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting of $86 million, net of income tax of $46 million, for the year ended December 31, 2004. Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, the Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits all entities the option to measure most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates and to report related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The fair value option will generally be applied on an instrument by instrument basis and is generally an irrevocable election. SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is evaluating which eligible financial instruments, if any, it will elect to account for at fair value under SFAS 159 and the related impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2006, the FASB issued FSP EITF 00 19 2, Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements (FSP EITF 00 19 2). FSP EITF 00 19 2 specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments or 144 Table of Contents otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. FSP EITF 00 19 2 is effective immediately for registration payment arrangements and the financial instruments subject to those arrangements that are entered into or modified subsequent to December 21, 2006. For registration payment arrangements and financial instruments subject to those arrangements that were entered into prior to December 21, 2006, the guidance in the FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company does not expect FSP EITF 00 19 2 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The guidance in SFAS 157 will be applied prospectively with the exception of: (i) block discounts of financial instruments; and (ii) certain financial and hybrid instruments measured at initial recognition under SFAS 133 which is to be applied retrospectively as of the beginning of initial adoption (a limited form of retrospective application). The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 157 on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Implementation of SFAS 157 will require additional disclosures in the Companys consolidated financial statements. In July 2006, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 13 2, Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction (FSP 13 2). FSP 13 2 amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, to require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition, FSP 13 2 requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption is changed. The guidance in FSP 13 2 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company does not expect FSP 13 2 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax recognized in a companys financial statements. FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. Previously recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made. FIN 48 will also require significant additional disclosures. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Based upon the Companys evaluation work completed to date, the Company expects to recognize a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings of between $35 million and $60 million. In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156). Among other requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in certain situations. SFAS 156 will be applied prospectively and is effective for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. The Company does not expect SFAS 156 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In September 2005, the AICPA issued SOP 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts (SOP 05 1). SOP 05 1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. SOP 05 1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a 145 Table of Contents contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. It is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007 related TPAs were issued by the AICPA to provide further clarification of SOP 05 1. The TPAs are effective concurrently with the adoption of the SOP. Based on the Companys interpretation of SOP 05 1 and related TPAs, the adoption of SOP 05 1 will result in a reduction to DAC and VOBA relating primarily to the Companys group life and health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset provisions. The Company estimates that the adoption of SOP 05 1 as of January 1, 2007 will result in a cumulative effect adjustment of between $275 million and $310 million, net of income tax, which will be recorded as a reduction to retained earnings. In addition, the Company estimates that accelerated DAC and VOBA amortization will reduce 2007 net income by approximately $25 million to $35 million, net of income tax. Investments The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and market valuation risk. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies; product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit and interest rate risks. 146 Table of Contents Composition of Portfolio and Investment Results The following table illustrates the net investment income and annualized yields on average assets for each of the components of the Companys investment portfolio at: December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES Yield(1) 6.16 % 6.00 % 6.53 % Investment income(2) $ 12,077 $ 10,400 $ 9,015 Investment gains (losses) $ (1,119 ) $ (868 ) $ 71 Ending carrying value(2) $ 244,187 $ 230,875 $ 176,377 MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER LOANS Yield(1) 6.60 % 6.81 % 6.99 % Investment income(3) $ 2,411 $ 2,236 $ 1,951 Investment gains (losses) $ (8 ) $ 17 $ (47 ) Ending carrying value $ 42,239 $ 37,190 $ 32,406 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES(4) Yield(1) 11.55 % 10.59 % 11.69 % Investment income $ 549 $ 467 $ 515 Investment gains (losses) $ 4,898 $ 2,139 $ 162 Ending carrying value $ 4,986 $ 4,665 $ 4,233 POLICY LOANS Yield(1) 5.99 % 6.00 % 6.15 % Investment income $ 603 $ 572 $ 541 Ending carrying value $ 10,228 $ 9,981 $ 8,899 EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS Yield(1) 14.18 % 12.83 % 9.96 % Investment income $ 1,067 $ 798 $ 404 Investment gains (losses) $ 85 $ 159 $ 208 Ending carrying value $ 9,912 $ 7,614 $ 5,095 CASH AND SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Yield(1) 5.51 % 3.66 % 3.00 % Investment income $ 442 $ 362 $ 153 Investment gains (losses) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ (1 ) Ending carrying value $ 9,816 $ 7,324 $ 6,710 OTHER INVESTED ASSETS(5)(6) Yield(1) 9.60 % 8.96 % 6.55 % Investment income $ 821 $ 570 $ 290 Investment gains (losses) $ (705 ) $ 502 $ (149 ) Ending carrying value $ 10,428 $ 8,078 $ 5,295 147 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) TOTAL INVESTMENTS Gross investment income yield(1) 6.62 % 6.35 % 6.69 % Investment fees and expenses yield (0.15 )% (0.14 )% (0.14 )% NET INVESTMENT INCOME YIELD 6.47 % 6.21 % 6.55 % Gross investment income $ 17,970 $ 15,405 $ 12,869 Investment fees and expenses $ (404 ) $ (339 ) $ (260 ) NET INVESTMENT INCOME $ 17,566 $ 15,066 $ 12,609 Ending carrying value $ 331,796 $ 305,727 $ 239,015 Gross investment gains $ 5,754 $ 3,340 $ 1,314 Gross investment losses $ (2,035 ) $ (1,578 ) $ (587 ) Writedowns $ (136 ) $ (116 ) $ (212 ) Subtotal $ 3,583 $ 1,646 $ 515 Derivative & other instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting $ (434 ) $ 301 $ (271 ) INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES) $ 3,149 $ 1,947 $ 244 Minority interest Investment gains (losses) $ $ (9 ) $ (9 ) Investment gains (losses) tax benefit (provision) $ (1,114 ) $ (681 ) $ (77 ) INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES), NET OF INCOME TAX $ 2,035 $ 1,257 $ 158 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses), and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude collateral associated with the Companys securities lending program. (2) Fixed maturity securities include $759 million and $825 million in ending carrying value and $71 million and $14 million of investment income related to trading securities for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company did not have any trading securities during the year ended December 31, 2004. (3) Investment income from mortgage and consumer loans includes prepayment fees. (4) Included in investment income from real estate and real estate joint ventures is $84 million, $151 million and $261 million of gains related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Included in investment gains (losses) from real estate and real estate joint ventures is $4.8 billion, $2.1 billion and $146 million of gains related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (5) Included in investment income from other invested assets are scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 of $290 million, $99 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These amounts are excluded from investment gains (losses). Additionally, excluded from investment gains (losses) is $6 million and ($13) million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to settlement payments on derivatives used to hedge interest rate and currency risk on PABs that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Such amounts are included within interest credited to policyholder account balances. (6) Included in investment gains (losses) from other invested assets for the year ended December 31, 2004 is a charge of $26 million related to a funds withheld reinsurance treaty that was converted to a coinsurance agreement. This amount is classified in investment income in the consolidated statements of income. 148 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Fixed maturity securities consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 73% and 75% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, public fixed maturity securities represented $210.6 billion, or 87%, and $200.2 billion, or 87%, of total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed maturity securities represented $32.8 billion, or 13%, and $29.9 billion, or 13%, of total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories called NAIC designations. The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys, or rated BBB or higher by Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings Insurance Group (Fitch)), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys, or rated BB+ or lower by S&P and Fitch). The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Cost or Cost or Amortized Estimated % of Amortized Estimated % of NAIC Rating Rating Agency Designation(1) Cost Fair Value Total Cost Fair Value Total (In millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 175,400 $ 178,915 73.5 % $ 161,427 $ 165,748 72.0 % 2 Baa 46,217 47,189 19.4 47,720 49,132 21.4 3 Ba 9,403 9,806 4.0 8,807 9,154 4.0 4 B 6,913 7,125 2.9 5,667 5,711 2.5 5 Caa and lower 370 377 0.2 287 290 0.1 6 In or near default 12 16 18 15 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,315 $ 243,428 100.0 % $ 223,926 $ 230,050 100.0 % (1) Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moodys, S&P and Fitch. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, the Company incorporated Fitch into its rating agency designations to be consistent with the Lehman Brothers ratings convention. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating is used. The Company held fixed maturity securities at estimated fair values that were below investment grade or not rated by an independent rating agency that totaled $17.3 billion and $15.2 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These securities had a net unrealized gain of $627 million and $392 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Non income producing fixed maturity securities were $16 million and $15 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Unrealized gains (losses) associated with non income producing fixed maturity securities were $4 million and ($3) million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 149 Table of Contents The cost or amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking funds), are shown below: December 31, 2006 2005 Cost or Cost or Estimated Amortized Estimated Amortized Fair Cost Fair Value Cost Value (In millions) Due in one year or less $ 7,014 $ 7,102 $ 7,111 $ 7,152 Due after one year through five years 45,782 46,367 36,105 36,562 Due after five years through ten years 40,213 40,817 45,303 46,256 Due after ten years 63,280 66,982 58,827 63,563 Subtotal 156,289 161,268 147,346 153,533 Mortgage backed and asset backed securities 82,026 82,160 76,580 76,517 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,315 $ 243,428 $ 223,926 $ 230,050 Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options. Sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available for sale are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Proceeds $ 89,869 $ 127,709 $ 57,604 Gross investment gains $ 580 $ 704 $ 844 Gross investment losses $ (1,533 ) $ (1,391 ) $ (516 ) The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturity and equity securities, the percentage that each sector represents by the total fixed maturity securities holdings and by the total equity securities holdings at: December 31, 2006 Cost or Amortized Gross Unrealized Estimated % of Cost Gain Loss Fair Value Total (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 74,618 $ 2,049 $ 1,017 $ 75,650 31.1 % Residential mortgage backed securities 51,602 385 321 51,666 21.2 Foreign corporate securities 34,231 1,924 386 35,769 14.7 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 29,897 984 248 30,633 12.6 Commercial mortgage backed securities 16,556 193 144 16,605 6.8 Asset backed securities 13,868 75 54 13,889 5.7 Foreign government securities 11,037 1,598 34 12,601 5.2 State and political subdivision securities 6,121 230 51 6,300 2.6 Other fixed maturity securities 385 7 77 315 0.1 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,315 $ 7,445 $ 2,332 $ 243,428 100.0 % Common stock $ 1,798 $ 487 $ 16 $ 2,269 44.2 % Non redeemable preferred stock 2,788 103 29 2,862 55.8 Total equity securities(1) $ 4,586 $ 590 $ 45 $ 5,131 100.0 % 150 Table of Contents December 31, 2005 Cost or Amortized Gross Unrealized Estimated % of Cost Gain Loss Fair Value Total (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 72,532 $ 2,816 $ 838 $ 74,510 32.4 % Residential mortgage backed securities 47,365 353 472 47,246 20.5 Foreign corporate securities 33,578 1,842 439 34,981 15.2 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 25,643 1,401 86 26,958 11.7 Commercial mortgage backed securities 17,682 223 207 17,698 7.7 Asset backed securities 11,533 91 51 11,573 5.0 Foreign government securities 10,080 1,401 35 11,446 5.0 State and political subdivision securities 4,601 185 36 4,750 2.1 Other fixed maturity securities 912 17 41 888 0.4 Total fixed maturity securities $ 223,926 $ 8,329 $ 2,205 $ 230,050 100.0 % Common stock $ 2,004 $ 250 $ 30 $ 2,224 66.6 % Non redeemable preferred stock 1,080 45 11 1,114 33.4 Total equity securities(1) $ 3,084 $ 295 $ 41 $ 3,338 100.0 % (1) Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities include private equity securities with an estimated fair value of $238 million and $472 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fixed Maturity and Equity Security Impairment. The Company classifies all of its fixed maturity and equity securities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income, except for non marketable private equities, which are generally carried at cost and trading securities which are carried at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described in Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Investments, about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment, and often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $82 million, $64 million and $102 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Companys three largest impairments totaled $33 million, $40 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The circumstances that gave rise to these impairments were financial restructurings, bankruptcy filings or difficult 151 Table of Contents underlying operating environments for the entities concerned. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity securities at a loss that had a fair value of $70.3 billion, $93.9 billion and $29.9 billion, respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion and $516 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity securities and equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at: December 31, 2006 Cost or Amortized Gross Unrealized Number of Cost Loss Securities Less than 20% or Less than 20% or Less than 20% or 20% more 20% more 20% more (In millions, except number of securities) Less than six months $ 52,384 $ 36 $ 549 $ 12 9,240 83 Six months or greater but less than nine months 3,143 3 56 1 706 2 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 12,199 14 211 4 989 1 Twelve months or greater 48,066 29 1,537 7 4,787 6 Total $ 115,792 $ 82 $ 2,353 $ 24 15,722 92 December 31, 2005 Number of Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Loss Securities Less than 20% or Less than 20% or Less than 20% or 20% more 20% more 20% more (In millions, except number of securities) Less than six months $ 92,512 $ 213 $ 1,707 $ 51 11,441 308 Six months or greater but less than nine months 3,704 5 108 2 456 7 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 5,006 133 573 2 Twelve months or greater 7,555 23 240 5 924 8 Total $ 108,777 $ 241 $ 2,188 $ 58 13,394 325 At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $2.4 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which represented 2% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. At December 31, 2006, $24 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 29% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $24 million, $12 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. At December 31, 2005, $58 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 24% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $58 million, $51 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. The Company held eight fixed maturity securities and equity securities each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 each greater than $10 million. These securities represented 7%, or $169 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity securities and equity securities. The Company held one fixed maturity security with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2005 greater than $10 million. This security represented less than 1%, or $10 million of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. 152 Table of Contents At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had $2.4 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of gross unrealized loss related to its fixed maturity and equity securities. These securities are concentrated, calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss, as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 Sector: U.S. corporate securities 43 % 37 % Residential mortgage backed securities 14 21 Foreign corporate securities 16 20 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 10 4 Commercial mortgage backed securities 6 9 Other 11 9 Total 100 % 100 % Industry: Industrial 23 % 22 % Mortgage backed 20 30 Government 12 5 Finance 11 11 Utility 10 6 Other 24 26 Total 100 % 100 % As described previously, the Company performs a regular evaluation, on a security by security basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities are other than temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which the Company considers in its other than temporary impairment analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost. The Companys intent and ability to hold securities considers broad portfolio management objectives such as asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return focus. In following these portfolio management objectives, changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are based on current conditions or the Companys need to shift the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an impaired security and that security is not expected to recover prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed other than temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an other than temporary impairment loss will be recognized. Based upon the Companys current evaluation of the securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause of the decline being principally attributable to the general rise in rates during the holding period, and the Companys current intent and ability to hold the fixed maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has concluded that the aforementioned securities are not other than temporarily impaired. 153 Table of Contents Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities. The table below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed maturity holdings at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Estimated % of Estimated % of Fair Value Total Fair Value Total (In millions) Industrial $ 39,535 35.5 % $ 41,332 37.7 % Foreign(1) 35,769 32.1 34,981 31.9 Finance 21,746 19.5 19,222 17.6 Utility 13,105 11.8 12,633 11.6 Other 1,264 1.1 1,323 1.2 Total $ 111,419 100.0 % $ 109,491 100.0 % (1) Includes U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors and other foreign investments. The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Companys combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the greatest exposure totaled $6.8 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, each less than 3% of the Companys total invested assets at such dates. The exposure to the largest single issuer of corporate fixed maturity securities held at December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $970 million and $943 million, respectively. The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign currency risk in its corporate fixed maturity portfolio. In the Companys international insurance operations, both its assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. Structured Securities. The following table shows the types of structured securities the Company held at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Estimated % of Estimated % of Fair Value Total Fair Value Total (In millions) Residential mortgage backed securities: Collateralized mortgage obligations $ 33,034 40.2 % $ 29,679 38.8 % Pass through securities 18,632 22.7 17,567 23.0 Total residential mortgage backed securities 51,666 62.9 47,246 61.8 Commercial mortgage backed securities 16,605 20.2 17,698 23.1 Asset backed securities 13,889 16.9 11,573 15.1 Total $ 82,160 100.0 % $ 76,517 100.0 % The majority of the residential mortgage backed securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $51.0 billion and $46.3 billion, respectively, or 99% and 98%, respectively, of the residential mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $13.8 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, or 83% and 75%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. The Companys asset backed securities are diversified both by sector and by issuer. Credit card receivables and home equity loans, accounting for about 35% and 22% of the total holdings, respectively, constitute the largest exposures in the Companys asset backed securities portfolio. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $8.0 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively, or 57% and 53%, respectively, of total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch. 154 Table of Contents Structured Investment Transactions. The Company participates in structured investment transactions which enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio principally by providing equity based returns on debt securities through structured notes and similar instruments. The carrying value of such investments, included in fixed maturity securities, was $354 million and $362 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The related net investment income recognized was $43 million, $28 million and $45 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Trading Securities During 2005, the Company established a trading securities portfolio to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income related to fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, trading securities were $759 million and $825 million, respectively, and liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio, which were included in other liabilities, were $387 million and $460 million, respectively. The Company had pledged $614 million and $375 million of its assets, primarily consisting of trading securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Travelers investment in Tribeca Citigroup Investments Ltd. (Tribeca). Tribeca was a feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced risk adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign equities and equity related securities utilizing such strategies as convertible securities arbitrage. At December 31, 2005, MetLife was the majority owner of the feeder fund and consolidated the fund within its consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2005, $452 million of trading securities and $190 million of the short sale agreements were related to Tribeca. Net investment income related to the trading activities of Tribeca, which included interest and dividends earned and net realized and unrealized gains (losses), was $12 million and $6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005. During the second quarter of 2006, MetLifes ownership interests in Tribeca declined to a position whereby Tribeca is no longer consolidated and, as of June 30, 2006, was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The equity method investment at December 31, 2006 of $82 million was included in other limited partnership interests. Net investment income related to the Companys equity method investment in Tribeca was $9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2006. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on the trading securities and the related short sale agreement liabilities totaled $71 million and $14 million, respectively. Changes in the fair value of such trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities, totaled $26 million and less than a million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company did not have any trading securities during the year ended December 31, 2004. Mortgage and Consumer Loans The Companys mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and consumer loans comprised 12.7% and 12.2% of the Companys total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of 155 Table of Contents discounts and valuation allowances. The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys mortgage and consumer loans by type at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Commercial mortgage loans $ 31,847 75.4 % $ 28,022 75.4 % Agricultural mortgage loans 9,213 21.8 7,700 20.7 Consumer loans 1,179 2.8 1,468 3.9 Total $ 42,239 100.0 % $ 37,190 100.0 % Commercial Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. The following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Region Pacific $ 7,663 24.0 % $ 6,818 24.3 % South Atlantic 6,881 21.6 6,093 21.8 Middle Atlantic 4,858 15.3 4,689 16.7 East North Central 2,879 9.0 3,078 11.0 West South Central 2,631 8.3 2,069 7.4 New England 1,301 4.1 1,295 4.6 International 2,832 8.9 1,817 6.5 Mountain 859 2.7 861 3.1 West North Central 799 2.5 825 2.9 East South Central 452 1.4 381 1.4 Other 692 2.2 96 0.3 Total $ 31,847 100.0 % $ 28,022 100.0 % Property Type Office $ 15,083 47.4 % $ 13,453 48.0 % Retail 6,552 20.6 6,398 22.8 Apartments 3,772 11.8 3,102 11.1 Industrial 2,850 8.9 2,656 9.5 Hotel 2,120 6.7 1,355 4.8 Other 1,470 4.6 1,058 3.8 Total $ 31,847 100.0 % $ 28,022 100.0 % 156 Table of Contents The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the Companys commercial mortgage loans at: December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Due in one year or less $ 1,772 5.6 % $ 1,052 3.8 % Due after one year through two years 3,006 9.4 2,138 7.6 Due after two years through three years 4,173 13.1 2,640 9.4 Due after three years through four years 3,822 12.0 4,037 14.4 Due after four years through five years 4,769 15.0 3,946 14.1 Due after five years 14,305 44.9 14,209 50.7 Total $ 31,847 100.0 % $ 28,022 100.0 % Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness. The Company records valuation allowances for certain of the loans that it deems impaired. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans where a property or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future default, as well as for pools of loans with similar high risk characteristics where a property specific or market risk has not been identified. Loan specific valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the mortgage loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the value of the loans collateral, or the loans market value if the loan is being sold. Valuation allowances for pools of loans are established based on property types and loan to value risk factors. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains (losses). The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 31,996 100 % $ 153 0.5 % $ 28,158 100 % $ 147 0.5 % Restructured % % Potentially delinquent 3 % 3 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 1 % 8 % Total $ 32,000 100.0 % $ 153 0.5 % $ 28,169 100.0 % $ 147 0.5 % 157 Table of Contents (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for commercial mortgage loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Balance at January 1, $ 147 $ 149 $ 122 Additions 25 43 53 Deductions (19 ) (45 ) (26 ) Balance at December 31, $ 153 $ 147 $ 149 Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic region and product type. Approximately 60% of the $9.2 billion of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2006 were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans has been successfully renegotiated and remains outstanding to maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans. The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 9,172 99.4 % $ 11 0.1 % $ 7,635 99.0 % $ 8 0.1 % Restructured 9 0.1 % 36 0.5 % Potentially delinquent 2 % 3 1 33.3 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 48 0.5 7 14.6 % 37 0.5 2 5.4 % Total $ 9,231 100.0 % $ 18 0.2 % $ 7,711 100.0 % $ 11 0.1 % (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Balance at January 1, $ 11 $ 7 $ 6 Additions 10 4 5 Deductions (3 ) (4 ) Balance at December 31, $ 18 $ 11 $ 7 Consumer Loans. Consumer loans consist of residential mortgages and auto loans. 158 Table of Contents The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for consumer loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost Cost(1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 1,155 97.1 % $ 10 0.9 % $ 1,454 98.1 % $ 13 0.9 % Restructured % % Potentially delinquent 17 1.4 % 9 0.6 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 18 1.5 1 5.6 % 20 1.3 2 10.0 % Total $ 1,190 100.0 % $ 11 0.9 % $ 1,483 100.0 % $ 15 1.0 % (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for consumer loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Balance at January 1, $ 15 $ 1 $ 1 Additions 17 1 Deductions (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Balance at December 31, $ 11 $ 15 $ 1 Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures The Companys real estate and real estate joint venture investments consist of commercial properties located primarily in the United States. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale was $5.0 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, or 1.5% and 1.5%, of total cash and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint ventures is stated at the Companys equity in the real estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation allowances. The following table presents the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures, real estate held for sale and real estate acquired upon foreclosure at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying % of Carrying % of Type Value Total Value Total (In millions) Real estate held for investment $ 3,499 70.2 % $ 2,980 63.9 % Real estate joint ventures held for investment 1,477 29.6 926 19.8 Foreclosed real estate held for investment 3 0.1 4 0.1 4,979 99.9 3,910 83.8 Real estate held for sale 7 0.1 755 16.2 Total real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale $ 4,986 100.0 % $ 4,665 100.0 % The Companys carrying value of real estate held for sale was $7 million and $755 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Real estate and real estate joint ventures held for sale recognized impairments of $8 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The carrying value of non 159 Table of Contents income producing real estate and real estate joint ventures was $8 million and $37 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company owned real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt of $3 million and $4 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure. Real estate and real estate joint ventures were categorized as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 Amount Percent Amount Percent (In millions) Office $ 2,709 55 % $ 2,597 56 % Apartments 739 15 889 19 Retail 513 10 612 13 Developmental joint ventures 169 3 Real estate investment funds 401 8 45 1 Industrial 291 6 284 6 Land 71 1 43 1 Agriculture 32 1 32 1 Other 61 1 163 3 Total $ 4,986 100 % $ 4,665 100 % The Companys real estate holdings are primarily located in the United States. At December 31, 2006, 26%, 15% and 15% of the Companys real estate holdings were located in New York, Texas and California, respectively. Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures meet the definition of a variable interest entity (VIE) under FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, and its December 2003 revision (FIN 46(r)). See Variable Interest Entities. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company closed the sale of its Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties together make up the largest apartment complex in Manhattan, New York totaling over 11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous acres. The properties were owned by the Holding Companys subsidiary, MTL. The sale resulted in a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, and is included in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively, resulting in gains, net of income tax, of $431 million and $762 million, respectively, and is included in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. In connection with the sale of the 200 Park Avenue property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage and is leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205. 160 Table of Contents Leveraged Leases Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested assets, consisted of the following: December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Rental receivables, net $ 1,055 $ 991 Estimated residual values 887 735 Subtotal 1,942 1,726 Unearned income (694 ) (645 ) Investment in leveraged leases $ 1,248 $ 1,081 The Companys deferred income tax liability related to leveraged leases was $670 million and $679 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The rental receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic installments. The payment periods generally range from one to 15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as 30 years. The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Income from investment in leveraged leases (included in net investment income) $ 51 $ 54 $ 26 Income tax expense on leveraged leases (18 ) (19 ) (9 ) Net income from leveraged leases $ 33 $ 35 $ 17 Other Limited Partnership Interests The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $4.8 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor interest, has influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually no influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies. The Companys investments in other limited partnership interests represented 1.4% of cash and invested assets at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. Some of the Companys investments in other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See Variable Interest Entities. Other Invested Assets The Companys other invested assets consisted principally of leveraged leases of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, funds withheld at interest of $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, and standalone derivatives with positive fair values and the fair value of embedded derivatives related to funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts of $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The leveraged leases are recorded net of non recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions, which are diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms 161 Table of Contents and may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio. The Companys other invested assets represented 3.1% and 2.6% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the Company enters into income generation and synthetically created investment transactions as permitted by its insurance subsidiaries Derivatives Use Plans approved by the applicable state insurance departments. The following table presents the notional amounts and current market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Current Market Current Market Notional or Fair Value Notional or Fair Value Amount Assets Liabilities Amount Assets Liabilities (In millions) Interest rate swaps $ 27,148 $ 639 $ 150 $ 20,444 $ 653 $ 69 Interest rate floors 37,437 279 10,975 134 Interest rate caps 26,468 125 27,990 242 Financial futures 8,432 64 39 1,159 12 8 Foreign currency swaps 19,627 986 1,174 14,274 527 991 Foreign currency forwards 2,934 31 27 4,622 64 92 Options 587 306 8 815 356 6 Financial forwards 3,800 12 40 2,452 13 4 Credit default swaps 6,357 5 21 5,882 13 11 Synthetic GICs 3,739 5,477 Other 250 56 250 9 Total $ 136,779 $ 2,503 $ 1,459 $ 94,340 $ 2,023 $ 1,181 The above table does not include notional values for equity futures, equity financial forwards, and equity options. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company owned 2,749 and 3,305 equity futures contracts, respectively. Market values of equity futures are included in financial futures in the preceding table. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company owned 225,000 and 213,000 equity financial forwards, respectively. Market values of equity financial forwards are included in financial forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company owned 74,864,483 and 4,720,254 equity options, respectively. Market values of equity options are included in options in the preceding table. Credit Risk. The Company may be exposed to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Companys derivative contracts is limited to the fair value at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Companys derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value at the reporting date. The Company manages its credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its derivative instruments. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $428 million and $195 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the obligation to return it is included in payables for 162 Table of Contents collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $453 million and $427 million, respectively, which are held in separate custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company provided collateral of $80 million and $4 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company has exchange traded futures, which require the pledging of collateral. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company pledged collateral of $105 million and $89 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. Variable Interest Entities The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that: (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2006; and (ii) it holds significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated: December 31, 2006 Primary Beneficiary Not Primary Beneficiary Maximum Maximum Total Exposure to Total Exposure to Assets(1) Loss(2) Assets(1) Loss(2) (In millions) Asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations $ $ $ 1,909 $ 246 Real estate joint ventures(3) 53 45 399 41 Other limited partnership interests(4) 84 3 20,770 1,583 Other investments(5) 31,170 2,356 Total $ 137 $ 48 $ 54,248 $ 4,226 (1) The assets of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value at December 31, 2006. The assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests and other investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such assets would have been reflected on the Companys balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity. (2) The maximum exposure to loss of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to the carrying amounts of retained interests. In addition, the Company provides collateral management services for certain of these structures for which it collects a management fee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests and other investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners. (3) Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other ventures which engage in the acquisition, development, management and disposal of real estate investments. (4) Other limited partnership interests include partnerships established for the purpose of investing in public and private debt and equity securities, as well as limited partnerships. (5) Other investments include securities that are not asset backed securitizations or collateralized debt obligations. Securities Lending The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity and equity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $43.3 billion and $32.1 billion and an estimated fair value of 163 Table of Contents $44.1 billion and $33.0 billion were on loan under the program at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $45.4 billion and $33.9 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Security collateral of $100 million and $207 million, on deposit from customers in connection with the securities lending transactions at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Separate Accounts The Company had $144.4 billion and $127.9 billion held in its separate accounts, for which the Company does not bear investment risk, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company manages each separate accounts assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The Company establishes separate accounts on a single client and multi client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, on January 1, 2004, the Company reported separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if: such separate accounts are legally recognized; assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Companys general account liabilities; investments are directed by the contractholder; and all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of income. The Companys revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are combined on a line by line basis with the Companys general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department, ALM Committees and additional specialists at the business segment level. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risk. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk (as described below). MetLife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage interest rate risk and the methods and assumptions used are generally consistent with those used by the Company in 2005. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. Market Risk Exposures The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 164 Table of Contents Interest Rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include GICs and annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term treasury rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Companys products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. See also Risk Factors Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. Equity Market Prices. The Companys investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long term guarantees on equity performance. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. The Company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound. The Company mitigates its fixed maturity securities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily exposed to the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, the Argentinean peso, the South Korean won, the Chilean peso, the Taiwanese dollar and the Japanese Yen. The Company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. Risk Management Corporate Risk Management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a Board of Directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the Holding Companys Board of Directors and various financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/Liability Management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Financial Management and Oversight Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the 165 Table of Contents various product line specific ALM Committees. The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. See also Risk Factors Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. Each of MetLifes business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. Department regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. Hedging Activities. To reduce interest rate risk, MetLifes risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. Such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. In 2004, MetLife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2006 to re price its invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity 166 Table of Contents analysis separately calculated each of MetLifes market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non trading invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: Fair Values. The Company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Companys currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. Earnings and Cash Flows. MetLife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated into the earnings and sensitivity analyses: the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage backed securities; the re estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; and the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturity and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2006. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the Companys equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2006 is set forth in the table below. The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys portfolio was: December 31, 2006 (In millions) Non trading: Interest rate risk $ 5,975 Equity price risk $ 241 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 690 Trading: Interest rate risk $ 25 167 Table of Contents The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys non trading interest sensitive financial instruments by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2006 Assuming a 10% increase Notional Estimated in the yield Amount Fair Value curve (In millions) Assets Fixed maturity securities $ 243,428 $ (6,034 ) Equity securities 5,131 Mortgage and consumer loans 42,451 (733 ) Policy loans 10,228 (307 ) Short term investments 2,709 (36 ) Cash and cash equivalents 7,107 Mortgage loan commitments $ 4,022 4 (12 ) Commitments to fund bank credit facilities and bridge loans $ 1,908 Total assets $ (7,122 ) Liabilities Policyholder account balances $ 108,318 $ 833 Short term debt 1,449 Long term debt 10,149 364 Junior subordinated debt securities 3,759 60 Shares subject to mandatory redemption 357 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 45,846 Total liabilities $ 1,257 Other Derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) Interest rate swaps $ 27,148 $ 489 $ (37 ) Interest rate floors 37,437 279 (100 ) Interest rate caps 26,468 125 70 Financial futures 8,432 25 84 Foreign currency swaps 19,627 (188 ) (95 ) Foreign currency forwards 2,934 4 (1 ) Options 587 298 (31 ) Financial forwards 3,800 (28 ) Credit default swaps 6,357 (16 ) Synthetic GICs 3,739 Other 250 56 Total other $ (110 ) Net change $ (5,975 ) This quantitative measure of risk has increased by $452 million, or 8%, at December 31, 2006, from $5,523 million at December 31, 2005. This change was due to an increase of $540 million due to an increase in the yield curve, an increase of $550 million due to asset growth and $72 million of other. These increases are partially offset by a decrease of $140 million due to growth in derivative usage and a decrease of $570 million due to a decline in asset duration. In addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the Company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the Companys liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $350 million. Management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the Company. 168 Table of Contents 
 
