Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For purposes of this discussion, MetLife or the Company refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the Holding Company), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC). Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the forward looking statement information included below, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements which constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect, intend and other similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the Company. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect the Companys ability to raise capital; (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (iii) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (iv) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (v) catastrophe losses; (vi) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (vii) changes in accounting standards, practices and or policies; (viii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA) or goodwill; (ix) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the Companys products and establishing the liabilities for the Companys obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (x) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xi) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xii) downgrades in the Companys and its affiliates claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xiii) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the Companys products or services; (xiv) MetLife, Inc.s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (xv) deterioration in the experience of the closed block established in connection with the reorganization of MLIC; (xvi) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to the Companys international operations; (xvii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xviii) the Companys ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; and (xix) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLifes filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Executive Summary MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into five operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto Home, International and Reinsurance, as well as Corporate Other. The managements discussion and analysis which follows isolates, in order to be meaningful, the results of the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from 57 Table of Contents Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), and substantially all of Citigroups international insurance businesses (collectively, Travelers) in the period over period comparison as the Travelers acquisition was not included in the results of the Company until July 1, 2005. The Travelers amounts which have been isolated represent the results of the Travelers legal entities which have been acquired. These amounts represent the impact of the Travelers acquisition; however, as business currently transacted through the acquired Travelers legal entities is transitioned to legal entities already owned by the Company, some of which has already occurred, the identification of the Travelers legal entity business will not necessarily be indicative of the impact of the Travelers acquisition on the results of the Company. As a part of the Travelers acquisition, management realigned certain products and services within several of the Companys segments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, all prior period segment results have been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. Also in connection with the Travelers acquisition, management has utilized its economic capital model to evaluate the deployment of capital based upon the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Companys existing and newly acquired businesses and has adjusted such allocations based upon this model. Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 The Company reported $4,180 million in net income available to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $5.48 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $6,159 million in net income available to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income available to common shareholders decreased by $1,979 million, or 32%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the 2006 period. The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was primarily due to a decrease in income from discontinued operations of $3,185 million, net of income tax. This decrease in income from discontinued operations was principally driven by a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006. Also contributing to the decrease was lower net investment income and net investment gains (losses) from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower income from discontinued operations related to the sale of MetLife Insurance Limited (MetLife Australia) annuities and pension businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and lower income from discontinued operations related to the sale of SSRM Holdings, Inc. (SSRM) resulting from a reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year December 31, 2006. An increase in other expenses of $579 million, net of income tax, decreased net income available to common shareholders. The increase in other expenses was primarily due to higher DAC amortization resulting from business growth, lower net investment losses in the current year and the net impact of revisions to managements assumption used to determine estimated gross profits and margins in both years. In addition, other expenses increased due to higher compensation, higher interest expense on debt and interest on tax contingencies, higher minority interest expense, the net impact of revisions to certain liabilities in both periods, asset write offs, higher general spending and expenses related to growth initiatives, partially offset by lower legal costs and integration costs incurred in the prior year. An increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances associated with an increase in the average policyholder account balance decreased net income available to common shareholders by $371 million, net of income tax. Partially offsetting the decrease in net income available to common shareholders was an increase in net investment income of $1,251 million, net of income tax, primarily due to an increase in the average asset base and an increase in yields. Growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership interests. Higher yields was primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity securities and improved securities lending results, partially offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, hedge funds and mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment income and the related yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit markets during 2007. 58 Table of Contents Additionally, there was a decrease in net investment losses of $419 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising interest rate environment, increased gains from asset based foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by increased losses from the mark to market on derivatives and reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures. The net effect of increases in premiums, fees and other revenues of $1,420 million, net of income tax, across all of the Companys operating segments and increases in policyholder benefit and claims and policyholder dividends of $924 million, net of income tax, was attributable to overall business growth and increased net income available to common shareholders. The remainder of the variance is due to the change in effective tax rates between periods. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 The Company reported $6,159 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $4,651 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $317 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,191 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period. Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available for sale or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of P.T. Sejahtera (MetLife Indonesia) which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,579 million, or 96%, to $3,222 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,643 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to other real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Net investment losses increased by $842 million, net of income tax, to a loss of $898 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $56 million, net of income tax, for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $191 million, net of income tax, during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $651 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark to market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling. Dividends on the Holding Companys Series A preferred shares and Series B preferred shares (Preferred Shares) issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005. The remainder of the increase of $334 million in net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period was primarily due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues attributable to continued business growth across all of the Companys operating segments. Also contributing to the increase was higher net investment income primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage 59 Table of Contents loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Favorable underwriting results for the year ended December 31, 2006 were partially offset by a decrease in net interest margins. These increases were partially offset by an increase in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense on debt, increased general spending, higher compensation and commission costs and higher expenses related to growth initiatives and information technology projects, partially offset by a reduction in Travelers integration expenses, principally corporate incentives. Acquisitions and Dispositions On August 31, 2007, MetLife Australia completed the sale of its annuities and pension businesses to a third party for $25 million in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $41 million, net of income tax, which was adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2007 for additional transaction costs. The Company reclassified the assets and liabilities of the annuities and pension businesses within MetLife Australia, which is reported in the International segment, to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held for sale and the operations of the business to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Included within the assets to be sold were certain fixed maturity securities in a loss position for which the Company recognized a net investment loss on a consolidated basis of $59 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2007, because the Company no longer had the intent to hold such securities. On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50% interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited (MetLife Fubon), for $56 million in cash, resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition, and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million, respectively, were included in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. The Companys investment for the initial 50% interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company used the equity method of accounting for such investment in MetLife Fubon. The Companys share of the joint ventures results for the six months ended June 30, 2007, was a loss of $3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at June 30, 2007, was $427 million and $371 million, respectively. No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of the step acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, additional VOBA and value of distribution agreements of $45 million and $5 million, respectively, were recorded and both have a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance, Ltd. (MLII), to a third party for $33 million in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection with this disposition. On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of MetLife Indonesia to a third party, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $10 million, net of income tax. As a result of this sale, the Company recognized income (loss) from discontinued operations of $5 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company reclassified the operations of MetLife Indonesia into discontinued operations for all years presented. On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, which is primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and not for profit markets, for $56 million, of which $2 million was allocated to goodwill and $54 million to other identifiable intangibles, specifically the value of customer relationships acquired, which have a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. CitiStreet Associates was integrated with MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, which is dedicated to provide retirement plans and financial services to the same markets. On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Travelers for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers operations were included in the Companys financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Companys core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Companys presence in both the retirement savings domestic 60 Table of Contents and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry. The initial consideration paid in 2005 by the Company for the acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Holding Companys common stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and $100 million in other transaction costs. Additional consideration of $115 million was paid by the Holding Company to Citigroup in 2006 as a result of the finalization by both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the provisions of the acquisition agreement. In addition to cash on hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock, debt securities, common equity units and preferred stock. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources. On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. The Company reported the operations of SSRM in discontinued operations. Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive additional payments based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife related business. Also under the terms of such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive additional consideration for the retention of certain customers for a specific period in 2005. Upon finalization of the computation, the Company received payments of $30 million, net of income tax, in the second quarter of 2006 and $12 million, net of income tax, in the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the retention of these specific customer accounts. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company received a payment of $16 million, net of income tax, as a result of the revenue retention and growth measure provision in the sales agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company accrued a liability for $2 million, net of income tax, related to the termination of certain MetLife related business. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable. See Subsequent Events for information on the Companys acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2007. Industry Trends The Companys segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the industry. Financial and Economic Environment. During 2007, the global capital markets reassessed the credit risk inherent in sub prime mortgages. This reassessment led to a fairly broad repricing of all credit risk assets and strained market liquidity. Global central banks intervened to stabilize market conditions and protect against downside risks to economic growth. Still, market and economic conditions continued to deteriorate. The economic communitys consensus outlook of global economic growth is lower for calendar year 2008, with a sizable minority of economists forecasting a recessionary environment. The global capital markets have adjusted towards this consensus outlook, with interest rates and equity prices falling and risk spreads widening. Slow growth and recessionary periods are often associated with declining asset prices, lower interest rates, credit rating agency downgrades and increasing default losses. The global capital markets are also less liquid now than in more normal environments. Liquidity conditions impact the cost of purchasing and selling assets and, at times, the ability to purchase or sell assets. These adjustments in the global capital markets have also resulted in higher realized and expected volatility. As expectations for global economic growth are lowered, factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the business we conduct. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 61 Table of Contents Demographics. In the coming decade, a key driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation and needs of the retiring Baby Boomers. As a result of increasing longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping the Baby Boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income represents an opportunity for the life insurance industry. Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby Boomers rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for income protection. The Company believes that, among life insurers, those with strong brands, high financial strength ratings and broad distribution, are best positioned to capitalize on the opportunity to offer income protection products to Baby Boomers. Moreover, the life insurance industrys products and the needs they are designed to address are complex. The Company believes that individuals approaching retirement age will need to seek information to plan for and manage their retirements and that, in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility for their benefit options and retirement planning, they will need information about their possible individual needs. One of the challenges for the life insurance industry will be the delivery of this information in a cost effective manner. Competitive Pressures. The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industrys products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. Regulatory Changes. The life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. Pension Plans. On August 17, 2006, President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) into law. The PPA is considered to be the most sweeping pension legislation since the adoption of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) on September 2, 1974. The provisions of the PPA may, over time, have a significant impact on demand for pension, retirement savings, and lifestyle protection products in both the institutional and retail markets. The impact of the legislation may have a positive effect on the life insurance and financial services industries in the future. Impact of Hurricanes On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. MetLifes cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Katrina were $314 million, $333 million and $335 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Companys homeowners business. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company recognized net losses, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance related premium adjustments related to the catastrophe, of ($13) million, ($2) million and $134 million, respectively. On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across the state of Florida. MetLifes cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Wilma were $66 million, $64 million and $57 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Companys homeowners and automobile businesses. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Companys Auto Home segment recognized net losses, net of income 62 Table of Contents tax and reinsurance recoverables, of ($3) million and $32 million, respectively, related to Hurricane Wilma. The Company did not recognize any loss during the year ended December 31, 2007, related to Hurricane Wilma. Additional hurricane related losses may be recorded in future periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent upon the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition, lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in Louisiana and Mississippi challenging denial of claims for damages caused to property during Hurricane Katrina. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is a named party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases in which Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is not a party may affect interpretation of its policies. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company intends to vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings could result in an increase in the Companys hurricane related claim exposure and losses. Based on information known by management, it does not believe that additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; (ii) investment impairments; (iii) the recognition of income on certain investments; (iv) the application of the consolidation rules to certain investments; (v) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; (vi) the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; (vii) the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (viii) the liability for future policyholder benefits; (ix) accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; (x) accounting for reinsurance transactions; (xi) accounting for employee benefit plans; and (xii) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters. The application of purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical estimates. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Investments The Companys principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships, short term investments, and other invested assets. The Companys investments are exposed to three primary sources of risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those associated with the determination of fair values, the recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain investments, and the potential consolidation of previously unconsolidated subsidiaries. 63 Table of Contents The Companys investments in fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available for sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. The fair values for public fixed maturity securities and public equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as for private fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. One of the significant estimates related to available for sale securities is the evaluation of investments for other than temporary impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Companys ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage backed and asset backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary in the period in which the determination is made. These impairments are included within net investment gains (losses) and the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities is reduced accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. 64 Table of Contents The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. loan backed securities, including mortgage backed and asset backed securities, certain investment transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned. Additionally, when the Company enters into certain structured investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 46(r), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of ARB No. 51, it may be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entitys expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party. The use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the determination of the fair value of investments, the timing and amount of impairments, the recognition of income, or consolidation of investments may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. The Company uses derivatives primarily to manage various risks. The risks being managed are variability in cash flows or changes in fair values related to financial instruments and currency exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. Fair value of derivatives is determined by quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models. The determination of fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market volatility, and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, other financial indices and credit ratings. Essential to the analysis of the fair value is risk of counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated derivative fair value amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income. Also, fluctuations in the fair value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting may result in significant volatility in net income. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported. Measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. Additionally, there is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation may not be identified and reported at fair value in the consolidated financial statements and that their related changes in fair value could materially affect reported net income. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and relate to the production of new business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency and policy issue expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that reflects the estimated fair 65 Table of Contents value of in force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the business in force at the acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for reporting purposes. DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term or reinsurance treaty. DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment type contracts are amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described below. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non participating and non dividend paying traditional contracts (term insurance, non participating whole life insurance, non medical health insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire premium paying period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating, dividend paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business in force, which impacts expected future gross margins. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits. 66 Table of Contents Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in force, which impacts expected future gross profits. Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in force account balances on such contracts each reporting period. Returns that are higher than the Companys long term expectation produce higher account balances, which increases the Companys future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than the Companys long term expectation. The Companys practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its long term expectation changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA balances of approximately $95 million with an offset to the Companys unearned revenue liability of approximately $20 million for this factor. The Company also reviews periodically other long term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. Over the past two years, the Companys most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA have been updated due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on contracts included within the Individual segment. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. The following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA within the Companys Individual segment of changing each of the respective assumptions during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In millions) Investment return $ 100 $ 192 Expense (53 ) 45 In force/Persistency 17 (7 ) Policyholder dividends and other (55 ) (39 ) Total $ 9 $ 191 As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, DAC and VOBA for the Individual segment were $14.2 billion and $14.0 billion, respectively, and for the total Company were $21.5 billion and $20.8 billion, respectively. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within Corporate Other is allocated to reporting units 67 Table of Contents within the Companys business segments. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market multiple, a discounted cash flow model, or a cost approach. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount rate. Liability for Future Policy Benefits The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities and non medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of expected future benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of expected future premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Liabilities for future policy benefits for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Other policyholder funds include claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on life and non medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life policies are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The Company offers certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefit riders. These include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) riders and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (GMAB) riders. GMWB and GMAB riders are embedded derivatives, which are measured at fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in fair value reported in net investment gains (losses). The fair values of GMWB and GMAB riders are calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining markets, causing an increase in liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income. The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur. 68 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The Companys accounting for income taxes represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following: (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years; and (iv) tax planning strategies. The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur. As described more fully in Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) effective January 1, 2007. Under FIN 48, the Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. Reinsurance The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance for its life and property and casualty insurance products. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. 69 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the Subsidiaries) sponsor and or administer pension and other postretirement plans covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. Litigation Contingencies The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Economic Capital Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLifes businesses. As a part of the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk based capital (RBC) formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Companys businesses. 70 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Results The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Company for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 27,895 $ 26,412 $ 24,860 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 5,311 4,780 3,828 Net investment income 19,006 17,082 14,756 Other revenues 1,533 1,362 1,271 Net investment gains (losses) (738 ) (1,382 ) (86 ) Total revenues 53,007 48,254 44,629 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 27,828 26,431 25,506 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 5,741 5,171 3,887 Policyholder dividends 1,726 1,701 1,679 Other expenses 11,673 10,783 9,264 Total expenses 46,968 44,086 40,336 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 6,039 4,168 4,293 Provision for income tax 1,759 1,097 1,222 Income from continuing operations 4,280 3,071 3,071 Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax 37 3,222 1,643 Net income 4,317 6,293 4,714 Preferred stock dividends 137 134 63 Net income available to common shareholders $ 4,180 $ 6,159 $ 4,651 Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 The Company Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $1,209 million, or 39%, to $4,280 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,071 million for the comparable 2006 period. The following table provides the change from the prior year in income from continuing operations by segment: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) International $ 472 39 % Institutional 314 26 Corporate Other 278 23 Individual 110 9 Auto Home 20 2 Reinsurance 15 1 Total change, net of income tax $ 1,209 100 % 71 Table of Contents The increase in the International segments income from continuing operations was primarily attributable to the following factors: An increase in Argentinas income from continuing operations primarily due to a net reduction of liabilities resulting from pension reform, a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from experience reviews in both the current and prior years, higher premiums resulting from higher pension contributions attributable to higher participant salaries, higher net investment income resulting from capital contributions in the prior year, and a smaller increase in market indexed policyholder liabilities without a corresponding decrease in net investment income, partially offset by the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system reform regulation, an increase in retention incentives related to pension reform, as well as lower trading portfolio income. Argentina also benefited, in both the current and prior years, from the utilization of tax loss carryforwards against which valuation allowances had been previously established. Mexicos income from continuing operations increased primarily due to a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment results on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, the favorable impact of experience refunds during the first quarter of 2007, a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from an experience review and the unfavorable impact in the prior year resulting from an adjustment to experience refunds in its institutional business, a year over year decrease in DAC amortization resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances, and growth in its institutional and universal life businesses. These increases in Mexicos income from continuing operations were partially offset by lower fees resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits, the favorable impact in the prior year associated with a large group policy that was not renewed, a decrease in various one time revenue items, lower investment yields, the favorable impact in the prior year of liabilities related to employment matters that were reduced, and the benefit in the prior year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims determined to be invalid. Taiwans income from continuing operations increased primarily driven by an increase due to higher DAC amortization in the prior year resulting from a loss recognition adjustment and restructuring costs, partially offset by the favorable impact of liability refinements in the prior year, as well as higher policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in the fourth quarter of 2006. Brazils income from continuing operations increased due to the unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities due to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of business and an increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year, the unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax credit in the prior year, as well as growth of the in force business. Irelands income from continuing operations increased primarily due to the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established, higher investment income, partially offset by higher start up expenses and currency transaction losses. Japans income from continuing operations increased due to improved hedge results and business growth, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency transaction losses. Hong Kongs income from continuing operations increased due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well as business growth. Chiles income from continuing operations increased primarily due to growth of the in force business, higher joint venture income and higher returns on inflation indexed securities, partially offset by higher compensation, infrastructure and marketing expenses. Income from continuing operations increased in the United Kingdom due to a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from an experience review, offset by an unearned premium calculation refinement. Australias income from continuing operations increased due to growth of the in force business and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 72 Table of Contents These increases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by a decrease in the home office due to higher economic capital charges and investment expenses, an increase in contingent tax expenses in the current year, as well as higher spending due to growth and initiatives, partially offset by the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the International segment, and a tax benefit associated with a prior year income tax expense related to a revision of an estimate. Indias income from continuing operations decreased primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, as well as the impact of valuation allowances established against losses in both years. South Koreas income from continuing operations decreased due to a favorable impact in the prior year associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as well as additional expenses in the current year associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives, partially offset by continued growth and lower DAC amortization, both in the variable universal life business. The Institutional segments income from continuing operations increased primarily due to lower net investment losses, an increase in interest margins, an increase in underwriting results, the impact of revisions to certain expenses in both periods, partially offset by higher expenses due to an increase in non deferrable volume related and corporate support expenses and an increase in DAC amortization resulting from the ongoing implementation of Statement of Position (SOP) 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts (SOP 05 1) in the current year. Corporate Others income from continuing operations increased primarily due to higher net investment income, lower net investment losses, lower corporate expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in the prior year, and lower legal costs, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits, higher interest expense on debt, higher interest on tax contingencies, and higher interest credited to bankholder deposits. The Individual segments income from continuing operations increased primarily due to a decrease in net investment losses, higher fee income from separate account products, higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by interest margins and an increase in interest margins, partially offset by higher DAC amortization, unfavorable underwriting results in life products, higher general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities in both years, the write off of a receivable in the current year, an increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation, higher annuity benefits, an increase in policyholder dividends and an increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances. The Auto Home segments income from continuing operations increased primarily due to an increase in premiums and other revenues, an increase in net investment income, an increase in net investment gains and a decrease in other expenses. These were partially offset by losses related to higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures, higher losses due to severity, an increase in unallocated claims adjusting expenses and an increase from a reduction in favorable development of prior year losses, partially offset by a decrease in catastrophe losses, which included favorable development of prior year catastrophe reserves, all of which are related to policyholder benefits and claims. Also offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations was a decrease in average earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs. The Reinsurance segments income from continuing operations increased primarily due to an increase in premiums due to additional business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, an increase in net investment income due to growth in the asset base, an increase in other revenues and a decrease in other expenses, partially offset by an increase in net investment losses which was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of embedded derivatives associated with the reinsurance of annuity products on a funds withheld basis. Revenues and Expenses Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $2,185 million, or 7%, to $34,739 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $32,554 million for the comparable 2006 period. 73 Table of Contents The following table provides the change from the prior year in premiums, fees and other revenues by segment: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) Institutional $ 594 27 % Reinsurance 573 26 International 560 26 Individual 364 17 Auto Home 65 3 Corporate Other 29 1 Total change $ 2,185 100 % The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to increases in the non medical health other and group life businesses. The non medical health other business increased primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, accidental death dismemberment (ADD) and individual disability insurance (IDI) businesses. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease in the long term care (LTC) business, net of a decrease resulting from a shift to deposit liability type contracts in the current year, partially offset by growth in the business. The group life business increased primarily due to business growth in term life and increases in corporate owned life insurance and life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans. These increases in the non medical health other and group life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the retirement savings business. The decrease in retirement savings was primarily due to a decrease in structured settlement and pension closeout premiums, partially offset by an increase in other products. The growth in the Reinsurance segment was primarily attributable to premiums from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in all RGAs operating segments. In addition, other revenues increased due to an increase in surrender charges on asset intensive business reinsured and an increase in fees associated with financial reinsurance. The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the following factors: An increase in Mexicos premiums, fees and other revenues due to higher fees and growth in its institutional and universal life businesses, a decrease in experience refunds during the first quarter of 2007 on Mexicos institutional business, as well as the adverse impact in the prior year of an adjustment for experience refunds on Mexicos institutional business, offset by lower fees resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and various one time revenue items which benefited both the current and prior years. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Hong Kong primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation as well as business growth. Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to higher annuity sales, higher institutional premiums from its traditional and bank distribution channels, and the decrease in the prior year resulting from managements decision not to match aggressive pricing in the marketplace. South Koreas premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to higher fees from growth in its guaranteed annuity and variable universal life businesses. Brazils premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and business growth. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Japan due to an increase in reinsurance assumed. Australias premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to growth in the institutional and reinsurance business in force, an increase in retention levels and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 74 Table of Contents Argentinas premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to higher pension contributions resulting from higher participant salaries and a higher salary threshold subject to fees and growth in bancassurance, offset by the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system reform regulation. Taiwans and Indias premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to business growth. These increases in premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a decrease in the United Kingdom due to an unearned premium calculation refinement, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher fee income from variable life and annuity and investment type products and growth in premiums from other life products, partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and a decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block business, in line with expectations. The growth in the Auto Home segment was primarily due to an increase in premiums related to increased exposures, an increase in various voluntary and involuntary programs, and a change in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory examination, as well as an increase in other revenues primarily due to slower than anticipated claim payments in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in average earned premium per policy, and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs. The increase in Corporate Other was primarily related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company (GALIC), partially offset by an adjustment of surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies. Net Investment Income Net investment income increased by $1,924 million, or 11%, to $19,006 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $17,082 million for the comparable 2006 period. Management attributes $1,336 million of this increase to growth in the average asset base and $588 million to an increase in yields. The increase in net investment income from growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests. The increase in net investment income attributable to higher yields was primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity securities and improved securities lending results, partially offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, hedge funds and mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment income and the related yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit markets during 2007. Interest Margin Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current year impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Net investment losses decreased by $644 million to a loss of $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $1,382 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease in net investment losses was 75 Table of Contents primarily due to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising interest rate environment, increased gains from asset based foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by increased losses from the mark to market on derivatives and reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures. Underwriting Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance related experience trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto Home segment were less favorable for the year ended December 31, 2007, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Underwriting results were favorable in the non medical health other, group life and retirement savings businesses in the Institutional segment. Underwriting results were unfavorable in the life products in the Individual segment. Other Expenses Other expenses increased by $890 million, or 8%, to $11,673 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $10,783 million for the comparable 2006 period. The following table provides the change from the prior year in other expenses by segment: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) Individual $ 512 57 % International 219 25 Institutional 124 14 Corporate Other 51 6 Auto Home (15 ) (2 ) Reinsurance (1 ) Total change $ 890 100 % The Individual segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to higher DAC amortization, higher expenses associated with business growth, information technology and other general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities, including pension and postretirement liabilities and policyholder liabilities in the prior year, and a write off of a receivable in the current year. The International segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to the business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above. It was driven by the following factors: Argentinas other expenses increased primarily due to a liability for servicing obligations that was established as a result of pension reform, an increase in commissions on bancassurance business, an increase in retention incentives related to pension reform, and the impact of managements update of DAC assumptions as a result of pension reform and growth, partially offset by a lower increase in liabilities due to inflation and exchange rate indexing. South Koreas other expenses increased primarily due to the favorable impact in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system in the prior year, additional expenses associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives, as well as business growth and higher bank insurance fees, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization. 76 Table of Contents Mexicos other expenses increased due to higher expenses related to business growth and the favorable impact in the prior year of liabilities that were reduced, offset by a decrease in DAC amortization resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years and a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances. Other expenses increased in India primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact of managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits. Other expenses increased in Australia primarily due to business growth and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Other expenses increased in Chile primarily due to compensation costs, infrastructure and marketing programs, and growth partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to inflation indexing. Other expenses increased in Hong Kong due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation. Irelands other expenses increased due to higher start up costs, as well as foreign currency transaction losses. Brazils other expenses increased due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates partially offset by an increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year. The United Kingdoms other expenses increased due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher spending on business initiatives partially offset by lower DAC amortization resulting from calculation refinements. These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a decrease in Taiwans other expenses primarily due to a one time increase in DAC amortization in the prior year due to a loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates related to product guarantees coupled with high persistency rates on certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC amortization in the prior year associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, as well as one time expenses in the prior year related to the termination of the agency force, and expense reductions recognized in the current year due to the elimination of the agency force. Other expenses decreased in the home office primarily due to the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the International segment, offset by higher spending on growth and infrastructure initiatives. The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to an increase in non deferrable volume related and corporate support expenses, higher DAC amortization associated with the ongoing implementation of SOP 05 1 in the current year, a charge related to the reimbursement of dental claims in the current year, the establishment of a contingent legal liability in the current year and the impact of certain revisions in both years. These increases were partially offset by a benefit related to a reduction of an allowance for doubtful accounts in the current year, the impact of a charge of non deferrable LTC commissions expense, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market record keeping businesses and a regulatory settlement, all in the prior year. Corporate Other contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, higher interest on tax contingences and an increase in interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank, National Association, a national bank (MetLife Bank or MetLife Bank, N.A.), partially offset by lower corporate support expenses, lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions, integration costs incurred in the prior year and lower legal costs. These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a decrease in the Auto Home segment primarily related to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories. These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a decrease in the Reinsurance segment primarily due to a decrease in expenses associated with DAC, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with note offerings in both years, an increase in minority interest expense, as well as an increase in compensation and overhead related expenses associated with RGAs international expansion and general growth in the operations. 77 Table of Contents Net Income Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1,759 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,097 million, or 26% of such income, for the comparable 2006 period. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. In addition, the increase in the effective rate for FIN 48 liability additions is entirely offset by an increase in non taxable investment income. The 2007 period includes a benefit for decrease in international deferred tax valuation allowances and the 2006 period included a prior year benefit for international taxes. Lastly, the 2006 period included benefit for a provision to filed return adjustment regarding non taxable investment income. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, decreased by $3,185 million, or 99%, to $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,222 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease in income from discontinued operations was primarily due a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains (losses) of $144 million, net of income tax, from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Also contributing to the decrease was lower income from discontinued operations of $23 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of MetLife Australias annuities and pension businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and lower income from discontinued operations of $18 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM resulting from a reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year December 31, 2006. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 The Company Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $3,071 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $298 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, income from continuing operations decreased by $298 million. Income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 included the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segments discussion. These items contributed a charge of $23 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2006. These items contributed a benefit of $48 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of these items and the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $227 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior 2005 period. The following table provides the change in income from continuing operations by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) Institutional $ (319 ) (140 )% Individual (68 ) (30 ) International (33 ) (15 ) Corporate Other (25 ) (11 ) Auto Home 192 85 Reinsurance 26 11 Total change, net of income tax $ (227 ) (100 )% The Institutional segments income from continuing operations decreased primarily due to an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, an increase in operating expenses, which included a charge 78 Table of Contents associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, partially offset by the impact of integration costs in the prior year and favorable underwriting results. The Individual segments income from continuing operations decreased as a result of an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, higher expenses and annuity benefits, as well as increases in interest credited to policyholder account balances and policyholder dividends. These decreases were partially offset by increased fee income related to the growth in separate account products, favorable underwriting results in life products, lower DAC amortization and a decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation. Income from continuing operations in Corporate Other decreased primarily due to higher investment losses, higher interest expense on debt, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits and legal related costs, partially offset by an increase in tax benefits, an increase in net investment income, lower integration costs and an increase in other revenues. The decrease in income from continuing operations in the International segment was primarily attributable to the following factors: Taiwan had a decrease due to a loss recognition adjustment and a restructuring charge, partially offset by reserve refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system. Income from continuing operations decreased in Canada primarily due to the realignment of economic capital in the prior year. Income from continuing operations in Mexico decreased primarily due to an increase in amortization of DAC, higher operating expenses, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various one time other revenue items in both periods, as well as an increase in income tax expense due to a tax benefit realized in the prior year. These decreases in Mexico were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in unrealized investment gains on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in the current year from the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, and the unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent liabilities. In addition, a decrease in Brazil was primarily due to an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to an increase in future policyholder benefit liabilities on specific blocks of business and an increase in litigation liabilities, as well as adverse claim experience in the current year. The home office recorded higher infrastructure expenditures in support of segment growth, as well as a contingent tax liability. This was offset by a reduction in the amount charged for economic capital. Results of the Companys investment in Japan decreased primarily due to variability in the hedging program. In addition, expenses related to the Companys start up operations in Ireland reduced income from continuing operations. A valuation allowance was established against the deferred tax benefit resulting from the Ireland losses. Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing operations were increases in Chile and the United Kingdom due to continued growth of the in force business. In addition, an increase occurred in Australia due to reserve strengthening on a block of business in the prior year. South Koreas income from continuing operations increased due to growth in the in force business and the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. Argentinas income from continuing operations increased due to higher net investment income resulting from capital contributions, the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain 79 Table of Contents contingent liabilities, the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established, and an increase in the prior year period of a deferred income tax valuation allowance, as well as business growth. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting the decreases in income from continuing operations was an increase in the Auto Home segment primarily due to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina, favorable development of prior year loss reserves, improvement in non catastrophe loss experience and a reduction in loss adjustment expenses. These increases were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, in the current year period, and decreases in net earned premiums, other revenues, and net investment income, as well as an increase in other expenses. Income from continuing operations in the Reinsurance segment increased primarily due to added business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations, an increase in net investment income due to growth in the invested asset base and an increase in other revenues. These items were partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience, an increase in liabilities associated with Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporateds (RGA) Argentine pension business in the prior period and an increase in other expenses, primarily related to expenses associated with DAC, interest expense, minority interest expense and equity compensation costs. Revenues and Expenses Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $2,595 million, or 9%, to $32,554 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $29,959 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $945 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $1,650 million. The following table provides the change in premiums, fees and other revenues by segment, excluding Travelers: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) Reinsurance $ 487 30 % International 470 28 Institutional 458 28 Individual 229 14 Corporate Other 4 Auto Home 2 Total change $ 1,650 100 % The growth in the Reinsurance segment was primarily attributable to premiums from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations. The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the following factors: An increase in Mexicos premiums, fees and other revenues due to growth in the business and higher fees, partially offset by an adjustment for experience refunds on a block of business and various one time other revenue items in both years. South Koreas premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to business growth, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Brazils premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to business growth and higher bancassurance business, as well as an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements. 80 Table of Contents Chiles premiums, fees and other revenues increased primarily due to higher institutional premiums through its bank distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales. Business growth in the United Kingdom, Argentina, Australia and Taiwan, as well as the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, also contributed to the increase in the International segment. The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, ADD products, as well as growth in the LTC and IDI businesses, all within the non medical health other business. Additionally, growth in the group life business was attributable to the impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in the term life business. These increases in the non medical health other and group life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the retirement savings business. The decline in retirement savings was primarily due to a decline in premiums from structured settlements predominantly due to lower sales, partially offset by an increase in master terminal funding premiums (MTF). The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher fee income from universal life and investment type products and an increase in premiums from other life products, partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and a decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block business as this business continues to run off. Net Investment Income Net investment income increased by $2,326 million, or 16%, to $17,082 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $14,756 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $1,425 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment income increased by $901 million of which management attributes $648 million to growth in the average asset base and $253 million to an increase in yields. This increase was primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Interest Margin Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances, decreased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Net investment losses increased by $1,296 million to a loss of $1,382 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $86 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $294 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $1,002 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark to market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling. 81 Table of Contents Underwriting Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results were favorable within the life products in the Individual segment, as well as in the Reinsurance segment, and in the group life and non medical health other products in the Institutional segment. Retirement savings underwriting results were mixed across several products in the Institutional segment. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Underwriting results in the International segment increased commensurate with the growth in the business for most countries with the exception of Brazil, which experienced unfavorable claim experience, and Argentina, which experienced improved claim experience. Other Expenses Other expenses increased by $1,519 million, or 16%, to $10,783 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $9,264 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $605 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, other expenses increased by $914 million. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes a $35 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation. The year ended December 31, 2005 included a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to MLICs demutualization in 2000. Excluding these items and the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased by $851 million from the comparable 2005 period. The following table provides the change in other expenses by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above: % of Total $ Change $ Change (In millions) International $ 326 38 % Corporate Other 287 34 Reinsurance 236 28 Institutional 79 9 Auto Home 17 2 Individual (94 ) (11 ) Total change $ 851 100 % The International segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This was driven by the following factors: Taiwans other expenses increased due to an increase in amortization of DAC, due to a loss recognition adjustment, refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system and a restructuring charge. Mexicos other expenses increased due to an increase in commissions commensurate with the revenue growth, higher DAC amortization, higher expenses related to growth initiatives and additional expenses associated with the Mexican pension business, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of contingent liabilities that were established in the prior year related to potential employment matters and which were eliminated in the current year. South Koreas other expenses increased due to an increase in DAC amortization and general expenses, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. 82 Table of Contents Brazils other expenses increased due to an increase in litigation liabilities. Other expenses associated with the home office increased due to an increase in expenditures for information technology projects, growth initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an increase in compensation expense. In addition, expenses were incurred related to the start up of operations in Ireland. Corporate Other contributed to the year over year variance in other expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank and legal related costs, partially offset by lower integration costs. The Reinsurance segment also contributed to the increase in other expenses primarily due to an increase in expenses associated with DAC, interest expense and minority interest, as well as an increase in compensation, including equity compensation expense and overhead related expenses. The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to an increase in non deferrable volume related expenses, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, all within the current year, partially offset by the reduction in Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals and an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. The Auto Home segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. Partially offsetting the increases in other expenses was a decrease in the Individual segment. This decrease was primarily due to lower DAC amortization, partially offset by higher general spending in the current year, despite higher corporate incentives. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and postretirement liabilities, in both periods, increased other expenses in the current year period. Net Income Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $1,097 million, or 26% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,222 million, or 28%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $118 million during the first six months of 2006, income tax expense was $979 million, or 26%, of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,222 million, or 28%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. The 2006 effective tax rate also includes an adjustment of a benefit of $33 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2005, and the 2005 effective tax rate also includes a tax benefit of $27 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a benefit of $31 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2004. Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available for sale or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of MetLife Indonesia which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,579 million, or 96%, to $3,222 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,643 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue 83 Table of Contents properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Dividends on the Holding Companys Preferred Shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005. Institutional The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Institutional segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 12,392 $ 11,867 $ 11,387 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 803 775 772 Net investment income 8,179 7,265 5,942 Other revenues 726 685 653 Net investment gains (losses) (580 ) (631 ) (10 ) Total revenues 21,520 19,961 18,744 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 13,806 13,367 12,776 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 3,094 2,593 1,652 Policyholder dividends 1 Other expenses 2,438 2,314 2,229 Total expenses 19,338 18,274 16,658 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 2,182 1,687 2,086 Provision for income tax 743 562 698 Income from continuing operations 1,439 1,125 1,388 Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax 10 42 174 Net income $ 1,449 $ 1,167 $ 1,562 Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 Institutional Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased $314 million, or 28%, to $1,439 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,125 million for the comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase are higher earnings of $33 million, net of income tax, from lower net investment losses. In addition, higher earnings of $11 million, net of income tax, resulted from an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations increased by $270 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year. Interest margins increased $229 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year. Management attributes this increase to a $146 million increase in retirement savings, a $46 million increase in group life and a $37 million increase in non medical health and other, respectively, all net of income tax. Interest margin is the 84 Table of Contents difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current year impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. An increase in underwriting results of $89 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year, contributed to the increase in income from continuing operations. Management attributes this increase primarily to the non medical health other, group life and retirement savings businesses with increases of $65 million, $16 million and $8 million, all net of income tax, respectively. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period. Partially offsetting this increase in income from continuing operations were higher expenses related to an increase in non deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support expenses of $72 million, net of income tax, as well as an increase in DAC amortization of $44 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a $40 million, net of income tax, charge due to the ongoing impact on DAC and VOBA amortization resulting from the implementation of SOP 05 1 in the current year. This increase in expense was partially offset by the impact of certain revisions in both years for a net decrease of $34 million, net of income tax. The remaining increase in operating expenses was more than offset by the remaining increase in premiums, fees, and other revenues. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,508 million, or 7%, to $22,100 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $20,592 million for the comparable 2006 period. Net investment income increased by $914 million. Management attributes $742 million of this increase to growth in the average asset base primarily within mortgage loans on real estate, fixed maturity securities, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests, and equity securities, driven by continued business growth, particularly growth in the funding agreements and global GIC businesses. Additionally, management attributes $172 million of this increase in net investment income to an increase in yields, primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, improved securities lending results, other limited partnership interests, and equity securities, partially offset by a decline in yields on real estate and real estate joint ventures and mortgage loans. The increase of $594 million in premiums, fees and other revenues was largely due to increases in the non medical health other business of $483 million, primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, ADD and IDI businesses of $478 million. Partially offsetting these increases in the non medical health other business is a decline in the LTC business of $7 million, which includes a $66 million decrease resulting from a shift to deposit liability type contracts in the current year. Excluding this shift, LTC premiums would have increased due to growth in the business. Group life increased $345 million, which management primarily attributes to a $262 million increase in term life, primarily due to growth in the business from new sales and an increase in reinsurance assumed, partially offset by the impact of an increase in experience rated refunds. In addition, corporate owned life insurance and life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans increased by $65 million and $30 million, respectively. The increase in corporate owned life insurance is largely attributable to fees earned on a large sale in the current year. These increases in group lifes premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a decrease of $5 million in the universal life insurance products. Partially offsetting the increase in premiums, fees and other revenues was a decline in retirement savings premiums, fees and other revenues of $234 million, primarily from declines of 85 Table of Contents $158 million and $79 million in structured settlement and pension closeout premiums, respectively, partially offset by an increase of $3 million across several products. The declines in the structured settlement and pension closeout businesses are predominantly due to the impact of lower sales in the current year. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Expenses Total expenses increased by $1,064 million, or 6%, to $19,338 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $18,274 million for the comparable 2006 period. The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest credited to policyholder account balances of $501 million, higher policyholder benefits and claims of $439 million and an increase in operating expenses of $124 million. Management attributes the increase of $501 million in interest credited to policyholder account balances to a $352 million increase solely from growth in the average policyholder account balances, primarily resulting from growth in global GICs and funding agreements within the retirement savings business and a $149 million increase from a rise in average crediting rates, largely due to the global GIC program, coupled with a rise in short term interest rates in the current year. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $439 million included a $16 million decrease related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the decrease related to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and claims increased by $455 million. Non medical health others policyholder benefits and claims increased by $385 million. This increase was largely due to a $371 million increase in the dental, disability, IDI and ADD businesses, resulting from the aforementioned growth in business. This increase was partially offset by favorable claim experience in the dental business and favorable morbidity experience in the disability, IDI and ADD businesses. This increase included charges related to certain refinements of $14 million in the current year in LTD and the impact of a $22 million disability liability reduction in the prior year, which contributed to the increase. An increase in LTC of $14 million is largely attributable to business growth and an increase in interest credited, partially offset by the aforementioned $66 million shift to deposit liability type contracts and the impact of more favorable claim experience in the current year. Group lifes policyholder benefits and claims increased by $264 million due mostly to an increase in the term life business of $245 million, which included the impact of less favorable mortality in the term life product, partially offset by the net impact of favorable liability refinements of $12 million in the current year. An increase of $29 million in life insurance sold to postretirement plans and $25 million for other group life products, including corporate owned life insurance, also contributed to the increase in policyholder benefits and claims for group life. The increases in term life and life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans are commensurate with the aforementioned premiums increases. These increases were partially offset by a decline in universal group life products of $36 million, primarily due to favorable claim experience. Retirement savings policyholder benefits decreased by $194 million, which was largely due to decreases in the pension closeout and structured settlement businesses of $98 million and $97 million, respectively. The decrease in pension closeouts was primarily due to the aforementioned decrease in premiums and a decrease in interest credited. The decline in structured settlements was primarily a result of the aforementioned decline in premiums, partially offset by an increase in interest credited and less favorable mortality experience in the current year. In addition, this decrease included the net impact of favorable liability refinements in the current year, which contributed a decrease of $20 million, and the net impact of favorable liability refinements in the prior year of $57 million, largely related to business associated with the acquisition of Travelers, principally in the structured settlement, pension closeout and general account businesses. Higher other expenses of $124 million included an increase in non deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support expenses of $108 million. Non deferrable volume related expenses included those expenses associated with direct departmental spending, information technology, commissions and premium taxes. Corporate support expenses included advertising, corporate overhead and consulting fees. The increase in other expenses was also attributable to higher DAC amortization of $68 million, primarily due to a $61 million charge as a result of the ongoing impact of DAC and VOBA amortization resulting from the implementation of SOP 05 1 in the current year. 86 Table of Contents In addition, a charge of $14 million related to the reimbursement of certain dental claims and a $15 million charge related to the establishment of a contingent legal liability in the current year contributed to the increase in other expenses. The impact of certain revisions in both years also contributed to a net increase in other expenses of $2 million. These increases were partially offset by a $13 million benefit related to a reduction of an allowance for doubtful accounts in the current year. Additionally, the prior year included the impact of a $22 million charge for non deferrable LTC commissions expense, a charge of $24 million associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses and $24 million related to a regulatory settlement, which reduced other expenses in the current year. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Institutional Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased $263 million, or 19%, to $1,125 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,388 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $56 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which included a decline of $104 million, net of income tax, of net investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased $319 million, or 23%, from the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease was a decline of $300 million, net of income tax, in net investment gains (losses), as well as a decline of $18 million, net of income tax, resulting from an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers and the decline in net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations was flat when compared to the prior year period. A decrease in interest margins of $84 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period contributed to the decrease in income from continuing operations. Management attributes this decrease primarily to the group life and retirement savings businesses of $60 million and $51 million, both net of income tax, respectively. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of $27 million, net of income tax, in the non medical health other business. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. The year over year variance in income from continuing operations included charges recorded in other expenses of $17 million, net of income tax, associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, $16 million, net of income tax, due to costs associated with a previously announced regulatory settlement and $15 million, net of income tax, associated with non deferrable LTC commission expense. Partially offsetting these increases in operating expenses were benefits due to prior year charges of $28 million, net of income tax, as a result of the impact of Travelers integration costs and $14 million, net of income tax, related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing operations was an increase in underwriting results of $97 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to favorable results of $48 million, $38 million and $11 million, all net of income tax, in the group life, the non medical health other businesses and the retirement savings businesses, respectively. The results in group life were primarily due to favorable mortality results, predominantly in the term life business, which included a benefit from reserve refinements in the current year. Non medical health others favorable underwriting results were primarily due to improvements in the IDI and dental businesses. The IDI results included certain reserve refinements in the prior year. Partially offsetting 87 Table of Contents these increases was a decrease in the ADD and disability businesses. Disabilitys results include the benefit of prior and current year reserve refinements. Retirement savings underwriting results were favorable with mixed underwriting across several products. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. The remaining increase in operating expenses more than offset the remaining increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,838 million, or 10%, to $20,592 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $18,754 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $797 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, such revenues increased by $1,041 million, or 6%, from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was comprised of higher net investment income of $583 million and growth in premiums, fees and other revenues of $458 million. Net investment income increased by $583 million of which management attributes $463 million to growth in the average asset base driven by business growth throughout 2005 and 2006, particularly in the GIC and structured settlement businesses and $120 million to an increase in yields. The increase in yields was primarily attributable to higher yields on fixed maturity securities, an increase in short term rates and higher returns on joint ventures. These increases were partially offset by a decline in securities lending results and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. The increase of $458 million in premiums, fees and other revenues was largely due to increases in the non medical health other business of $408 million, primarily due to growth in the dental, disability and ADD products of $255 million. In addition, continued growth in the LTC and IDI businesses contributed $117 million and $25 million, respectively. Group life increased by $296 million, which management primarily attributes to the impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in term life business, which includes a significant increase in premiums from two large customers. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in retirement savings premiums, fees and other revenues of $246 million, resulting primarily from a decline of $320 million in structured settlements, predominantly due to the impact of lower sales. This decline was partially offset by a $83 million increase in MTF premiums. Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement savings products are significantly influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Expenses Total expenses increased by $1,616 million, or 10%, to $18,274 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $16,658 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $551 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total expenses increased $1,065 million, or 6%, from the comparable 2005 period. The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest credited to policyholder account balances of $621 million, policyholder benefits and claims of $366 million and operating expenses of $79 million. Management attributes the increase of $621 million in interest credited to policyholder account balances to $433 million from an increase in average crediting rates, which was largely due to the impact of higher short term rates in the current year period and $188 million solely from growth in the average policyholder account balances, primarily resulting from GICs within the retirement savings business. The increases in policyholder benefits and claims of $366 million included a $27 million increase related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the increase related to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and claims increased by $339 million. Non medical health others policyholder benefits and claims increased by $306 million, predominantly due to the aforementioned growth in business, as well as unfavorable morbidity in 88 Table of Contents disability and unfavorable claim experience in ADD. Partially offsetting these increases was favorable claim and morbidity experience in IDI, as well as the impact of an establishment of a $25 million liability for future losses in the prior year. In addition, favorable claim experience in the current year reduced dental policyholder benefits and claims. Additionally, disability business included a $22 million benefit which resulted from reserve refinements in the current year. The year over year variance in disability also includes the impact of an $18 million loss related to Hurricane Katrina in the prior year. Group lifes policyholder benefits and claims increased by $238 million, largely due to the aforementioned growth in the business, partially offset by favorable underwriting results, particularly in the term life business. Term life included a benefit of $16 million due to reserve refinements in the current year. Partially offsetting the increase was a retirement savings policyholder benefits and claims decrease of $205 million, predominantly due to the aforementioned decrease in revenues, partially offset by higher FAS 60 interest credits recorded in policyholder benefits and claims due to growth in structured settlements and MTF. The increase in other expenses of $79 million was primarily due to an increase in the current year of $60 million in non deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support expenses. Non deferrable volume related expenses include those expenses associated with information technology, direct departmental spending and commission expenses. Corporate support expenses include advertising, corporate overhead and consulting fees. Also contributing to the increase was $26 million associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, $23 million of non deferrable LTC commission expense, $24 million related to costs associated with a previously announced regulatory settlement and $11 million related to stock based compensation. Partially offsetting these increases were benefits due to prior year charges of $43 million in Travelers related integration costs, principally incentive accruals and $22 million related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products. Individual The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Individual segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 4,496 $ 4,516 $ 4,485 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 3,513 3,201 2,476 Net investment income 7,052 6,912 6,534 Other revenues 599 527 477 Net investment gains (losses) (99 ) (598 ) (50 ) Total revenues 15,561 14,558 13,922 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 5,721 5,409 5,417 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 2,030 2,035 1,775 Policyholder dividends 1,718 1,697 1,670 Other expenses 4,031 3,519 3,264 Total expenses 13,500 12,660 12,126 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 2,061 1,898 1,796 Provision for income tax 705 652 594 Income from continuing operations 1,356 1,246 1,202 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 1 18 296 Net income $ 1,357 $ 1,264 $ 1,498 89 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 Individual Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $110 million, or 9%, to $1,356 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,246 million for the comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase was a decrease in net investment losses of $324 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations decreased by $214 million from the comparable 2006 period. The decrease in income from continuing operations for the year was driven by the following items: Higher DAC amortization of $204 million, net of income tax, primarily resulting from business growth, lower net investment losses in the current year and revisions to managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins. Unfavorable underwriting results in life products of $134 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period. Higher expenses of $129 million, net of income tax. Higher general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities in both periods, and the write off of a receivable from one of the Companys joint venture partners contributed to the increase in other expenses. An increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $75 million, net of income tax, which was driven by net investment gains. Higher annuity benefits of $24 million, net of income tax, primarily due to higher amortization of deferred costs, partially offset by lower costs of guaranteed annuity benefit riders and related hedging. An increase in policyholder dividends of $14 million, net of income tax, due to growth in the business. An increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances of $13 million, net of income tax, due primarily to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business. These aforementioned decreases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by the following items: Higher fee income from separate account products of $271 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from a combination of growth in the business and overall market performance. Higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by interest margins of $85 million, net of income tax, due to an increase in yields and growth in the average asset base. An increase in interest margins of $18 million, net of income tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed a $1 million decrease to the deferred annuity business offset by a $19 million increase to other investment type products, both net of income tax. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances related to the general account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net adjustments for other non policyholder elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest credited to policyholder account balances tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, subject to any minimum guarantees and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. 90 Table of Contents The change in effective tax rates between periods accounts for the remainder of the decrease in income from continuing operations. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $504 million, or 3%, to $15,660 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $15,156 million for the comparable 2006 period. Premiums decreased by $20 million due to a decrease in immediate annuity premiums of $27 million, and an $89 million decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business, in line with expectations. These decreases were partially offset by growth in premiums from other life products of $96 million, primarily driven by increased sales of term life business. Universal life and investment type product policy fees combined with other revenues increased by $384 million due to a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance, as well as revisions to managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. Net investment income increased by $140 million. Net investment income from the general account portion of investment type products and other businesses increased by $45 million and $95 million, respectively. Management attributes $5 million of this increase to an increase in yields, primarily due to higher returns on other limited partnership interests. Additionally, management attributes $135 million to growth in the average asset base across various investment types. Expenses Total expenses increased by $840 million, or 7%, to $13,500 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $12,660 million for the comparable 2006 period. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $312 million primarily due to an increase in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $115 million which was primarily driven by net investment gains. Unfavorable mortality in the life products, as well as revisions to policyholder benefits in both periods, contributed $180 million to this increase. Included in this increase was $72 million of unfavorable mortality in the closed block and a prior year net increase of $15 million in the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Higher amortization of sales inducements resulting from business growth and revisions to managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins, partially offset by lower costs of guaranteed annuity benefit riders and related hedging increased annuity benefits by $37 million. Partially offsetting these increases, policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $20 million commensurate with the decrease in premiums discussed above. Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $5 million. Interest credited on the general account portion of investment type products and other businesses decreased by $15 million and $10 million, respectively. Of the $15 million decrease on the general account portion of investment type products, management attributed $67 million to higher crediting rates, more than offset by $82 million due to lower average policyholder account balances. Partially offsetting these decreases was lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business of $20 million primarily driven by lower lapses in the current year. Policyholder dividends increased by $21 million due to growth in the business. Higher other expenses of $512 million include higher DAC amortization of $314 million resulting from business growth, lower net investment losses and revisions to managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins. The remaining increase in other expenses of $198 million was comprised of $167 million associated with business growth, information technology and other general expenses, $7 million due to the impact of revisions to certain liabilities including pension and postretirement liabilities and policyholder 91 Table of Contents liabilities in the prior year, and $24 million associated with the write off of a receivable from one of the Companys joint venture partners in the current year. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Individual Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $44 million, or 4%, to $1,246 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,202 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $112 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which included $88 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Included in the Travelers results was a $21 million increase to the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $68 million, or 6%, to $1,134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,202 million for the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease were net investment losses of $270 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses) and the acquisition of Travelers for the first six months of 2006, income from continuing operations increased by $202 million from the comparable 2005 period. The increase in income from continuing operations for the year was driven by the following items: Higher fee income from separate account products of $151 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from a combination of growth in the business and overall market performance. Lower DAC amortization of $113 million, net of income tax, resulting from investment losses and revisions to managements assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins. A decrease in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $68 million, net of income tax. Favorable underwriting results in life products of $61 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance related experience trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period. Higher net investment income on blocks of business that were not driven by interest margins of $16 million, net of income tax. These aforementioned increases in income from continuing operations were partially offset by the following items: A decline in interest margins of $58 million, net of income tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general account portion of investment type products. Management attributed $40 million of this decrease to the deferred annuity business and the remaining $18 million to other investment type products. Interest margin is the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances related to the general account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net adjustments for other non policyholder elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest credited to policyholder account balances tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements, subject to any minimum guarantees, and therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense. Higher expenses of $52 million, net of income tax. Higher general spending in the current period was partially offset by higher corporate incentives in the prior year. Higher annuity benefits of $30 million, net of income tax, primarily due to higher costs of the guaranteed annuity benefit riders and the related hedging, and revisions to future policyholder benefits. 92 Table of Contents An increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances of $26 million, net of income tax, due primarily to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business. An increase in policyholder dividends of $18 million, net of income tax, due to growth in the business. The change in effective tax rates between periods accounts for the remainder of the increase in income from continuing operations. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $1,184 million, or 8%, to $15,156 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $13,972 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $1,009 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by $175 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2005 period. Premiums decreased by $38 million due to a decrease in immediate annuity premiums of $22 million, and a $103 million expected decline in premiums associated with the Companys closed block of business, partially offset by growth in premiums from other life products of $87 million. Higher universal life and investment type product policy fees combined with other revenues of $267 million resulted from a combination of growth in the business and improved overall market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and investment type products are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity performance. Net investment income decreased by $54 million. Net investment income from the general account portion of investment type products decreased by $56 million which was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in other businesses. Management attributed a decrease of $146 million partially to lower yields in the current year primarily resulting from lower income from securities lending activities, mortgage and bond prepayment fee income, partially offset by higher corporate joint venture income. In addition, management attributed an increase of $92 million from growth in the average asset base primarily from equity securities and mortgage loans. Expenses Total expenses increased by $534 million, or 4%, to $12,660 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $12,126 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $706 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Included in the Travelers results was a $33 million increase to the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses decreased by $172 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $156 million primarily due to a reduction in the closed block related policyholder dividend obligation of $105 million driven by higher net investment losses. A reduction of $49 million related to the excess mortality liability on a specific block of life insurance policies that lapsed or otherwise changed also contributed to the decrease. In addition, policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $38 million commensurate with the decrease in premiums discussed above. Unfavorable mortality in the closed block of $99 million was more than offset by favorable mortality in the life products of $109 million, contributing $10 million to the decrease in policyholder benefits and claims. Partially offsetting these decreases in policyholder benefits and claims was an increase in annuity benefits of $46 million primarily due to higher costs of the guaranteed annuity benefit riders and the related hedging, and revisions to future policyholder benefits. Partially offsetting these decreases, interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $51 million. Lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business resulting from higher lapses in the prior period, as well as an update of assumptions in the current period contributed $40 million to the increase. In addition, interest credited on the general account portion of investment type products increased $16 million, while other businesses decreased by $5 million. Of the $16 million increase on 93 Table of Contents the general account portion of investment type products, management attributed $37 million to higher crediting rates, partially offset by $21 million due to lower average policyholder account balances. Partially offsetting these decreases in total expenses was a $27 million increase in policyholder dividends associated with growth in the business. Lower other expenses of $94 million include lower DAC amortization of $174 million resulting from changes in investment gains and losses of $154 million and $20 million related to managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. The remaining increase in other expenses was $80 million. The current year included higher general spending of $94 million primarily due to information technology and travel expenses while the prior year had higher corporate incentives of $39 million related to the Travelers integration. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and postretirement liabilities in both periods was a net increase to expenses of $25 million in the current period. Auto Home The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Auto Home segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 2,966 $ 2,924 $ 2,911 Net investment income 196 177 181 Other revenues 45 22 33 Net investment gains (losses) 16 4 (12 ) Total revenues 3,223 3,127 3,113 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 1,807 1,717 1,994 Policyholder dividends 4 6 3 Other expenses 830 845 828 Total expenses 2,641 2,568 2,825 Income before provision for income tax 582 559 288 Provision for income tax 146 143 64 Net income $ 436 $ 416 $ 224 Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 Auto Home Net Income Net income increased by $20 million, or 5%, to $436 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $416 million for the comparable 2006 period. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to an increase in premiums of $28 million, net of income tax. The increase in premiums was principally due to an increase of $38 million, net of income tax, related to increased exposures, an increase of $4 million, net of income tax, from various voluntary and involuntary programs and an increase of $4 million, net of income tax, resulting from the change in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory examination. Offsetting these increases was a $14 million, net of income tax, decrease related to a reduction in average earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs of $4 million, net of income tax. 94 Table of Contents In addition, net investment income increased by $12 million, net of income tax, due primarily to a realignment of economic capital and an increase in net investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower asset base. Net investment gains (losses) increased by $11 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year. In addition, other revenues increased by $16 million, net of income tax, due primarily to slower than anticipated claims payments in 2006 resulting in slower recognition of deferred income in 2006 related to a reinsurance contract as compared to 2007. Negatively impacting net income were additional policyholder benefits and claims of $60 million, net of income tax, primarily due to $39 million, $20 million, and $16 million, all net of income tax, of losses related to higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures and higher losses due to severity, respectively. In addition, a $13 million increase, net of income tax, in unallocated claims adjusting expenses and an increase of $12 million, net of income tax, from a reduction in favorable development of prior year losses negatively impacted net income. Offsetting these increases was a $41 million, net of income tax, decrease in catastrophe losses, which included favorable development of prior year catastrophe reserves of $10 million, net of income tax. In addition, there was a decrease of $1 million, net of income tax, in policyholder dividends that positively impacted net income. Also favorably impacting net income was a reduction of $10 million, net of income tax, in other expenses related to lower information technology and advertising costs. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $84 million, or 3%, to $3,207 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,123 million for the comparable 2006 period. Premiums increased by $42 million due principally to a $59 million increase in premiums related to increased exposures, an increase of $5 million from various voluntary and involuntary programs and an increase in premiums of $5 million, resulting from the change in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory examination. Offsetting these increases was a $21 million decrease related to a reduction in average earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs of $6 million. Net investment income increased by $19 million due to a realignment of economic capital and an increase in net investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower asset base. In addition, other revenues increased $23 million due primarily to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting in slower recognition of deferred income in 2006 related to a reinsurance contract as compared to 2007. Expenses Total expenses increased by $73 million, or 3%, to $2,641 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $2,568 million for the comparable 2006 period. Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $90 million which was primarily due to an increase of $59 million from higher claim frequencies, as a result of a return to normal weather patterns in 2007 compared to the milder weather in 2006 across the majority of the country, and a $25 million and $30 million increase in losses related to higher severity and higher earned exposures, respectively. In addition, an increase of $20 million in unallocated loss adjustment expenses, primarily resulting from an increase in claims related information technology costs, and a $19 million decrease in favorable development of prior year losses, representing $148 million of favorable development for 2007 as compared to $167 million for the 2006 period, increased policyholder benefits and claims. Offsetting these increases in losses was a decrease of $63 million in catastrophe losses, which includes $15 million of favorable loss development from prior year catastrophes. Policyholder dividends decreased by $2 million in 2007 as compared to the prior year. Other expenses decreased by $15 million primarily related to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories. 95 Table of Contents Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2007, although lower than the comparable period of 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Auto Home Net Income Net income increased by $192 million, or 86%, to $416 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $224 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 from Hurricane Katrina of $124 million, net of income tax, related to losses, loss adjusting expenses and reinstatement and additional reinsurance related premiums and a loss in the fourth quarter of 2005 related to losses and expenses from Hurricane Wilma of $32 million, net of income tax. Excluding the losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, net income increased by $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. Favorable development of prior year loss reserves contributed $72 million, net of income tax, to the increase in net income. In addition, an improvement in non catastrophe loss experience, primarily due to improved frequencies, contributed $16 million, net of income tax and a reduction in loss adjustment expenses, primarily due to improved claims handling practices, contributed $13 million, net of income tax, to the increase. The increase in net income was offset by higher catastrophe losses in the current year, excluding the impact of Katrina and Wilma, resulting in a decrease to net income of $49 million, net of income tax. Also impacting net income was a decrease in net earned premiums, excluding the impact of Hurricane Katrina, of $19 million, net of income tax, resulting primarily from an increase of $16 million, net of income tax, in catastrophe reinsurance costs and a reduction of $4 million, net of income tax, in involuntary assumed business, offset by an increase in premiums of $1 million, net of income tax, primarily from increased exposures, mostly offset by lower average premium per policy. In addition, other revenues decreased by $7 million, net of income tax, due to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting in slower recognition of deferred income related to a reinsurance contract. Net investment income decreased by $3 million, net of income tax, due to a $12 million decrease in net investment income related to a realignment of economic capital, partially offset by a $9 million increase in income as a result of a slightly higher asset base. Net investment gains (losses) increased $10 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the comparable 2005 period. Other expenses increased by $11 million, net of income tax, primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. The change in effective tax rates between periods accounted for the remainder of the increase in net income. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), decreased by $2 million, or less than 1%, to $3,123 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,125 million for the comparable 2005 period. Premiums increased by $13 million due principally to the existence of a $43 million charge for reinstatement and additional reinsurance premiums in the third quarter of 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina. Premiums decreased by $30 million year over year after giving consideration to this charge. This decrease resulted from $25 million in additional catastrophe reinsurance costs and a decrease of $6 million in involuntary assumed business in 2006, mainly associated with the Massachusetts involuntary market. These changes were partially offset by an increase in premiums of $35 million resulting from increased exposures, offset by a $34 million decrease in premiums from a change in the average earned premium per policy. Net investment income decreased by $4 million primarily due to an $18 million decrease in net investment income related to a realignment of economic capital, mostly offset by a $14 million increase in income as a result of a slightly higher asset base with slightly higher yields. 96 Table of Contents Other revenues decreased by $11 million due to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting in a slower recognition of deferred income related to a reinsurance contract. Expenses Total expenses decreased by $257 million, or 9%, to $2,568 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,825 million for the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $277 million which was primarily due to $196 million in claims and expenses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma incurred in 2005. The remainder of the decrease in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, can be attributed to $111 million in additional favorable development of prior year losses, improvements in claim frequencies of $72 million and a decrease of $20 million in unallocated loss expense due primarily to improved claims handling practices. These decreases in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, were partially offset by $32 million of additional losses due to severity, $15 million of additional losses due to exposure growth and a $75 million increase in catastrophe losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Other expenses increased by $17 million primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. International The following table presents consolidated financial information for the International segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 3,096 $ 2,722 $ 2,186 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 995 804 579 Net investment income 1,248 950 794 Other revenues 23 28 20 Net investment gains (losses) 55 (10 ) 12 Total revenues 5,417 4,494 3,591 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 2,458 2,411 2,128 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 355 289 240 Policyholder dividends 4 (2 ) 5 Other expenses 1,748 1,529 997 Total expenses 4,565 4,227 3,370 Income from continuing operations before provision for income tax 852 267 221 Provision for income tax 208 95 35 Income from continuing operations 644 172 186 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax (9 ) 28 6 Net income $ 635 $ 200 $ 192 97 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 International Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $472 million, or 274%, to $644 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $172 million for the comparable 2006 period. This increase includes the impact of net investment gains of $42 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations increased by $430 million from the comparable 2006 period. Income from continuing operations increased in: Argentina by $146 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a net reduction of liabilities by $48 million, net of income tax, resulting from pension reform. Additionally, $66 million of a valuation allowance related to a deferred tax asset established in connection with such pension reform liabilities was reduced, resulting in a commensurate increase in income from continuing operations. Under the reform plan, fund administrators are no longer liable for death and disability claims of the plan participants, however administrators retain the obligation for administering certain existing and future participants accounts for which they receive no revenue. Also contributing is the favorable impact of reductions in claim liabilities resulting from experience reviews in both the current and prior years, higher premiums primarily due to higher pension contributions attributable to higher participant salaries, higher net investment income resulting from capital contributions in the prior year, and a smaller increase in market indexed policyholder liabilities without a corresponding decrease in net investment income, partially offset by the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system reform regulation, an increase in retention incentives related to pension reform, as well as lower trading portfolio income. Argentina also benefited, in both the current and prior years, from the utilization of tax loss carryforwards against which valuation allowances had previously been established, and in the current year from the reduction of valuation allowances due to expected realizability of deferred tax assets. Mexico by $139 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment results on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, the favorable impact of experience refunds during the first quarter of 2007 in its institutional business, a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from experience reviews, the adverse impact in the prior year of an adjustment for experience refunds in its institutional business, a year over year decrease in DAC amortization as a result of managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances, as well as growth in its institutional and universal life businesses. These increases were offset by lower fees resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits, the favorable impact in the prior year associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a decrease in various one time revenue items, lower investment yields, the favorable impact in the prior year of liabilities related to employment matters that were reduced, and the benefit in the prior year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review. Taiwan by $51 million, net of income tax, primarily due to an increase in DAC amortization in the prior year due to a loss recognition adjustment and prior year restructuring costs of $11 million associated with the termination of the agency distribution channel, partially offset by the favorable impact of liability refinements in the prior year and higher policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in the prior year. Brazil by $37 million, net of income tax, due to the unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities due to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of business in the prior year, an increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year and the unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax credit in the prior year, as well as growth of the in force business. Ireland by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established as well as higher investment income resulting from 98 Table of Contents higher invested assets from a capital contribution, partially offset by higher start up expenses and currency transaction losses. Japan by $22 million, net of income tax, due to improved hedge results and business growth, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency transaction losses. Hong Kong by $9 million, net of income tax, due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well as business growth. Chile by $8 million, net of income tax, primarily due to continued growth of the in force business, higher joint venture income and higher returns on inflation indexed securities, partially offset by higher compensation, infrastructure and marketing expenses. The United Kingdom by $3 million, net of income tax, due to a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from an experience review, offset by an unearned premium calculation refinement. Australia by $1 million, net of income tax, due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates offset by higher claims and business growth. Partially offsetting these increases, income from continuing operations decreased in: The home office by $9 million, net of income tax, due to higher economic capital charges and investment expenses of $16 million, net of income tax, a $3 million increase in contingent tax expenses in the current year, as well as higher spending on growth and initiatives, partially offset by the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the International segment and a tax benefit associated with a prior year income tax expense of $7 million related to a revision of an estimate. India by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, as well as the impact of valuation allowances established against losses in both years. South Korea by $4 million, net of income tax, due to a favorable impact in the prior year of $38 million, net of income tax, in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as well as additional expenses in the current year associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives, partially offset by continued growth in its variable universal life business, lower DAC amortization in the variable universal life business due to favorable market performance and a lower increase in claim liabilities. The remainder of the change in income from continuing operations can be attributed to contributions from the other countries. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $858 million, or 19%, to $5,362 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $4,504 million for the comparable 2006 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $560 million, or 16%, to $4,114 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,554 million for the comparable 2006 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in: Mexico by $133 million primarily due to higher fees and growth in its institutional and universal life businesses, a decrease of $13 million in experience refunds during the first quarter of 2007 on Mexicos institutional business, as well as the adverse impact in the prior year of an adjustment for experience refunds on Mexicos institutional business. These increases were offset by lower fees resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits, and various one time revenue items for which the prior year benefited by $16 million and the current year benefited by $4 million. Hong Kong by $98 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well as business growth. 99 Table of Contents Chile by $94 million primarily due to higher annuity sales resulting from a higher interest rate environment, improved competitive conditions and an expected rate increase in 2008, higher institutional premiums from its traditional and bank distribution channels, as well as the decrease in the prior year resulting from managements decision not to match aggressive pricing in the marketplace. South Korea by $90 million primarily due to higher fees from growth in its guaranteed annuity business and variable universal life business. Brazil by $35 million primarily due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and business growth. The Companys Japan operation by $31 million due to an increase in reinsurance assumed. Australia by $26 million as a result of growth in the institutional and reinsurance in force business, an increase in retention levels and changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Argentina by $21 million primarily due to an increase in premiums and fees from higher pension contributions resulting from higher participant salaries and a higher salary threshold subject to fees and growth in bancassurance, partially offset by the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system reform regulation. Taiwan and India by $21 million and $11 million, respectively, primarily due to business growth. Partially offsetting these increases, premiums, fees and other revenues decreased in: The United Kingdom by $3 million due to an unearned premium calculation refinement partially offset by changes in foreign currency rates. The remainder of the change in premiums, fees and other revenues can be attributed to contributions from the other countries. Net investment income increased by $298 million, or 31%, to $1,248 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $950 million for the comparable 2006 period. Net investment income increased in: Chile by $148 million due to the impact of higher inflation rates on indexed securities, the valuations and returns of which are linked to inflation rates, higher joint venture income, as well as an increase in invested assets. Mexico by $46 million due to an increase in invested assets, partially offset by a decrease in yields, exclusive of inflation. Hong Kong by $43 million primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation. Japan by $19 million due to an increase of $52 million from hedging activities associated with Japans guaranteed annuity, offset by a decrease of $33 million, net of income tax, in the Companys investment in Japan primarily due to an increase in the costs of guaranteed annuity benefits and the impact of foreign currency transaction losses, partially offset by business growth. South Korea and Taiwan by $24 million and $6 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in invested assets. Brazil by $14 million primarily due to increases in invested assets as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Australia by $12 million due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, higher yields and increases in invested assets. Ireland by $9 million due to an increase in invested assets resulting from capital contributions. India by $4 million due to an increase in invested assets, as well as higher yields. 100 Table of Contents Partially offsetting these increases in net investment income was a decrease in: The home office of $25 million primarily due to an increase in the amount charged for economic capital and investment management expenses. Argentina by $7 million primarily due to unfavorable results in the trading portfolio, partially offset by higher invested assets resulting from capital contributions in the prior year. Additionally, net investment income in the prior year did not decrease correspondingly with the decrease in policyholder benefits and claims discussed below because the prior year did not include interest and inflation indexed assets to support such liabilities. The remainder of the change in net investment income can be attributed to contributions from the other countries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a $106 million increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses). Expenses Total expenses increased by $338 million, or 8%, to $4,565 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $4,227 million for the comparable 2006 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $119 million, or 4%, to $2,817 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $2,698 million for the comparable 2006 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in: Chile by $221 million primarily due to an increase in inflation indexed policyholder liabilities as well as growth in its annuity and institutional businesses. Hong Kong by $119 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation. Taiwan by $65 million primarily due to a decrease of $14 million in the prior year from liability refinements associated with the conversion to a new valuation system, as well as higher policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in the fourth quarter of 2006 and growth in the business. South Korea by $27 million primarily due to business growth as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by a lower increase in claims liabilities resulting from a change in the reinsurance allowance in the prior year. Australia by $23 million due to higher claims, an increase in retention levels, business growth and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. India by $4 million due to higher claims and business growth, partially offset by managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits. Partially offsetting these increases in policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances were decreases in: Argentina by $250 million primarily due to the elimination of liabilities for claims and premium deficiencies of $208 million resulting from pension reform. Under the reform plan, which is effective January 1, 2008, fund administrators are no longer liable for new death and disability claims of the plan participants. Also contributing is a decrease in interest and market indexed policyholder liabilities and the favorable impact of reductions in claim liabilities resulting from experience reviews in both the current and prior years. Mexico by $63 million, primarily due to a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities of $117 million caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment results on the invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year and a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from experience reviews, offset by an increase 101 Table of Contents of $10 million due to a decrease in the prior year of policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, an increase of $6 million due to a benefit in the prior year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, as well as business growth. Brazil of $13 million primarily due to the impact in the prior year of increases in policyholder liabilities from higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of business, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The United Kingdom by $8 million, due to a reduction of claim liabilities based on a review of experience. Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Other expenses increased by $219 million, or 14%, to $1,748 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,529 million for the comparable 2006 period. Other expenses increased in: Argentina by $153 million, primarily due to a liability of $128 million for servicing obligations that was established as a result of pension reform. Under the reform plan, which is effective January 1, 2008, the Company retains the obligation for administering certain existing and future participants accounts for which they receive no revenue. Also contributing is an increase in commissions on bancassurance business, an increase in retention incentives related to pension reform, the impact of managements update of DAC assumptions as a result of pension reform and growth, partially offset by a lower increase in liabilities due to inflation and exchange rate indexing. South Korea by $92 million, primarily due to the favorable impact in the prior year of $60 million in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system and additional expenses in the current year associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives, as well as business growth and higher bank insurance fees, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to market performance. Mexico by $27 million primarily due to higher expenses related to business growth and the favorable impact in the prior year of liabilities related to employment matters that were reduced, offset by a decrease in DAC amortization resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, and a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances. India by $14 million primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact of managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits. Australia by $12 million primarily due to business growth and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Chile by $12 million primarily due to higher compensation costs, higher spending on infrastructure and marketing programs and growth, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to inflation indexing. Hong Kong by $11 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation. Ireland by $10 million due to additional start up costs, as well as $5 million of foreign currency transaction losses. Brazil by $9 million primarily due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year. The United Kingdom by $2 million due to changes in foreign currency rates and higher spending on business initiatives, partially offset by lower DAC amortization resulting from calculation refinements. 102 Table of Contents Partially offsetting these increases in other expenses were decreases in: Taiwan by $118 million primarily due to a one time increase in DAC amortization in the prior year of $77 million due to a loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency rates on certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC amortization in the prior year associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, expenses of $17 million in the prior year related the termination of the agency distribution channel and expense reductions recognized in the current year due to elimination of the agency distribution channel. The home office of $4 million primarily due to the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the International Segment, offset by higher spending on growth and infrastructure initiatives. Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a $105 million increase in total expenses. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 International Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations decreased by $14 million, or 8%, to $172 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $186 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $20 million during the first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations, which includes $3 million, net of income tax, of net investment gains. Included in the Travelers results is an increase to policyholder benefits and claims of $10 million, net of income tax, resulting from the increase in policyholder liabilities due to higher than expected mortality in Brazil on specific blocks of business written in the Travelers entity since the acquisition, and consistent with the increase in the existing MetLife entity as described more fully below. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $34 million, or 18%, from the comparable 2005 period. This decrease includes the impact of net investment gains (losses) of ($17) million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations decreased by $17 million from the comparable 2005 period. Income from continuing operations decreased in: Taiwan by $59 million, net of income tax, due to a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of accelerated DAC amortization) of $50 million, net of income tax, and restructuring costs of $11 million, net of income tax, partially offset by reserve refinements of $3 million, net of income tax, associated with the conversion to a new valuation system. Canada by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to the realignment of economic capital in the prior year. Mexico by $12 million, net of income tax, due to an increase in amortization of DAC resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins in both years, higher operating expenses from the pension business, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various one time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited by $13 million, net of income tax, and the current year benefited by $11 million, net of income tax, as well as an increase of $27 million in tax due to tax benefits realized in the prior year from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA).These were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in unrealized investment gains on invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in the current year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent liabilities that were established related to potential employment matters in that year and which were eliminated in the current year as well as overall business growth. Brazil by $7 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a $10 million, net of income tax, increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to an increase in future policyholder benefit liabilities on specific 103 Table of Contents blocks of business. This increase is due to significantly higher than expected mortality experience, of which a total of $20 million, net of income tax, of additional liabilities were recorded, $10 million, net of income tax, of which was associated with the acquired Travelers business, and of which $10 million, net of income tax, was related to the existing MetLife entities. Brazils income from continuing operations was also impacted by an increase in litigation liabilities, as well as adverse claim experience in the current year. The Companys investment in Japan by $4 million, net of income tax, due to variability in the hedging program. The home office by $49 million primarily due to recorded higher infrastructure expenditures in support of segment growth of $39 million, net of income tax, as well as a $23 million, net of income tax, contingent tax liability. This was offset by an increase in income from continuing operations of $13 million, net of income tax, due to a reduction in the amount charged for economic capital. The Companys operation in Ireland reduced operating income by $34 million, net of income tax, due to start up expenses in the current year. A valuation allowance was established against the deferred income tax benefit resulting from the Ireland losses. Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing operations were increases in: South Korea by $79 million, net of income tax, primarily due to continued growth of the in force business, a one time benefit of $38 million, net of income tax, associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as well as a benefit of $13 million from the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Argentina by $61 million, net of income tax, due to higher net investment income resulting from capital contributions since the completion of the Travelers acquisition, the release of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain contingent liabilities, the utilization of $4 million of net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been previously established, a $12 million increase in the prior year period of a deferred income tax valuation allowance established against tax benefits in that year, as well as business growth. Australia by $22 million, net of income tax, primarily due to reserve strengthening on a block of business in the prior year, as well as business growth. Chile by $5 million, net of income tax, primarily due to growth in the institutional business of $2 million, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $2 million. The United Kingdom by $5 million, net of income tax, primarily due to growth of the in force business. The remainder of the decrease in income from continuing operations can be attributed to other countries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $2 million of the increase in income from continuing operations. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $925 million, or 26%, to $4,504 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,579 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $366 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by $559 million, or 16%, over the comparable 2005 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $469 million, or 17%, to $3,254 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,785 million for the comparable 2005 period. Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in: Mexico by $159 million, primarily due to higher fees and growth in its universal life and institutional business, partially offset by an adjustment for experience refunds on a block of business and various one 104 Table of Contents time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited by $19 million and the current year benefited by $16 million. South Korea by $156 million primarily due to business growth driven by strong sales of its variable universal life product, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $56 million. Brazil by $49 million due to business growth and higher bancassurance business, as well as an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements. Chile by $22 million primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $14 million, as well as an increase in institutional premiums through its bank distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales due in part from managements decision not to match aggressive pricing in the marketplace. The United Kingdom, Argentina, Australia, and Taiwan by $21 million, $16 million, $15 million, and $12 million respectively, primarily due to business growth. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Net investment income increased by $90 million, or 11%, to $884 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $794 million for the comparable 2005 period. Net investment income increased in: Argentina by $41 million primarily due to higher invested assets resulting from capital contributions since the completion of the Travelers acquisition. Mexico by $28 million primarily due to higher inflation rates and increases in invested assets, partially offset by lower average investment yields. South Korea, Brazil and Taiwan by $25 million, $14 million and $5 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in invested assets, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million. Home office by $17 million primarily due to a reduction in the amount charged for economic capital from the prior year. Partially offsetting these increases in net investment income were decreases in: Chile by $8 million primarily due to a reduction in the inflation rate, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $8 million and increases in invested assets. The invested asset valuations and returns on these invested assets are linked to inflation rates in most of the Latin American countries in which the Company does business. Canada by $33 million due to the realignment of economic capital. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $105 million on total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses). Expenses Total expenses increased by $857 million, or 25%, to $4,227 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $3,370 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $346 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $511 million, or 15%, over the comparable 2005 period. Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by $187 million, or 8%, to $2,560 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $2,373 million for the comparable 2005 period. 105 Table of Contents Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in: Mexico by $113 million primarily due to an increase in other policyholder benefits and claims of $108 million and in interest credited to policyholder account balances of $39 million commensurate with the growth in revenue discussed above. These increases in Mexico were partially offset by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities of $18 million caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment gains on the invested assets supporting those liabilities, a $10 million benefit from a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, and a $6 million benefit in the current year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review. Brazil by $49 million primarily due to an increase in policyholder liabilities on these specific blocks of business as discussed above, an increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements, as well as adverse claim experience in other lines of business. South Korea by $44 million commensurate with the business growth discussed above, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $33 million. Partially offsetting these increases, policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends, and interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased in: Australia by $22 million due to reserve strengthening in the prior year on a block of reinsurance business. Chile by $7 million primarily due to a decrease in annuity liabilities related to the decrease in the inflation index and the decrease in annuity premiums discussed above, partially offset by growth in the institutional business, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $17 million. Taiwan by $2 million primarily due to a decrease of $14 million from reserve refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, partially offset by an increase of $12 million primarily due to business growth. Argentina by $2 million primarily due to the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a review, partially offset by business growth. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Other expenses increased by $324 million, or 32%, to $1,321 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $997 million for the comparable 2005 period. Other expenses increased in: Taiwan by $110 million primarily due to a one time increase in DAC amortization of $77 million due to a loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency rates on certain blocks of business, an increase of $17 million related to the termination of the agency distribution channel in Taiwan, an increase of $9 million from refinements associated with the implementation of a new valuation system, as well as business growth. Mexico by $49 million primarily due to an increase in commissions commensurate with the revenue growth discussed above, higher DAC amortization resulting from managements update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, higher expenses related to growth initiatives, and additional expenses associated with the Mexican pension business, partially offset by the favorable impact of contingent liabilities that were established in the prior year related to potential employment matters and which were eliminated in the current year. South Korea by $25 million, primarily due to an increase in DAC amortization and general expenses, which were both due to the growth in business, the impact in the prior year of an accrual for an early retirement program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $15 million. These were partially offset by a decrease of $60 million in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system. 106 Table of Contents Brazil by $25 million primarily due to the growth in business discussed above, as well as an increase in litigation liabilities. Chile by $13 million due to increased commissions and other expenses associated with its institutional business, as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $4 million. The United Kingdom and Australia by $15 million and $3 million, respectively, primarily due to business growth. Home office by $57 million primarily due to an increase in expenditures for information technology projects, growth initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an increase in compensation resulting from an increase in headcount from the comparable 2005 period. Ireland by $34 million primarily related to the start up of the Companys operation in Ireland. Offsetting these increases, other expenses decreased in: Argentina by $9 million primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain contingent liabilities. Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the change. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $90 million of the increase in total expenses. Reinsurance The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 4,910 $ 4,348 $ 3,869 Net investment income 871 732 606 Other revenues 77 66 58 Net investment gains (losses) (177 ) 7 22 Total revenues 5,681 5,153 4,555 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 3,989 3,490 3,206 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 262 254 220 Other expenses 1,226 1,227 991 Total expenses 5,477 4,971 4,417 Income before provision for income tax 204 182 138 Provision for income tax 71 64 46 Net income $ 133 $ 118 $ 92 Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 Reinsurance Net Income Net income increased by $15 million, or 13%, to $133 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 from $118 million for the comparable 2006 period. The increase in net income was attributable to a 13% increase in premiums while policyholder benefits and claims increased by 14%, a 19% increase in net investment income while interest credited to policyholder account 107 Table of Contents balances increased by 3%, and a 17% increase in other revenues. The increase in premiums, net of the increase in policyholder benefits and claims, added $41 million to net income, net of income tax, which was primarily due to additional business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations. Policyholder benefits and claims as a percentage of premiums were 81% and are comparable to the prior year. The increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances, added $85 million to net income and was due primarily to growth in the invested asset base. The increases in invested assets and net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances were substantially derived from the issuance of notes, which also increased interest expense within other expenses as described below. Additionally, positive operating cash flows and additional policyholder account balances contributed to the growth in the invested asset base. The increase in other revenues added $7 million to net income, net of income tax, and was primarily related to an increase in investment product fees on asset intensive business and financial reinsurance fees during 2007. A decrease in other expenses added $1 million to net income, net of income tax. The decrease in other expenses was primarily related to a reduction of expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, offset by an increase in interest, expense compensation and overhead related expenses associated with RGAs international expansion, and minority interest expense. The increase in interest expense is associated with the issuance of $850 million 30 year notes in June 2006 by a subsidiary of RGA to provide long term collateral for Regulation XXX statutory reserves, RGAs issuance of $300 million senior notes in March 2007, and FIN 48 interest expense. These increases in net income were partially offset by a $120 million increase in net investment losses, net of income tax. The increase in net investment losses was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of embedded derivatives associated with the reinsurance of annuity products on a funds withheld basis. Additionally, a component of the increase in net income was a $4 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $712 million, or 14%, to $5,858 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 from $5,146 million for the comparable 2006 period. The increase in revenues was primarily associated with growth in premiums of $562 million from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in all RGA operating segments, including the U.S., which contributed $221 million; Asia Pacific, which contributed $192 million; Europe and South Africa, which contributed $91 million; and Canada, which contributed $58 million. Premium levels are significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Net investment income increased by $139 million primarily due to growth in the invested asset base from net proceeds from the aforementioned notes offerings by RGA and its subsidiary, positive cash flows from operations, additional deposits associated with the coinsurance of annuity products, and a realignment of economic capital. The investment yield also increased slightly over the comparable prior year. Other revenues increased by $11 million primarily due to an increase in surrender charges on asset intensive business reinsured and an increase in fees associated with financial reinsurance. Additionally, a component of the increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), was a $128 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Expenses Total expenses increased by $506 million, or 10%, to $5,477 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 from $4,971 million for the comparable 2006 period. This increase in total expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $499 million in policyholder benefits and claims, primarily associated with a growth in insurance in force of $179 billion, and an increase of 108 Table of Contents $8 million in interest credited to policyholder account balances. This increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances was more than offset by an increase in net investment income. In addition to the in force growth, favorable mortality in the prior year in the international operations added to the increase in policyholder benefits and claims. Other expenses decreased by $1 million due to a $79 million decrease in expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, offset by a $41 million increase in interest expense associated with the aforementioned notes offerings by RGA and its subsidiary and the application of FIN 48, and an $7 million increase in minority interest expense. Included in the $79 million decrease in expenses associated with DAC was a $113 million reduction of DAC amortization due to the change in the value of embedded derivatives associated with modified coinsurance arrangements as a result of the impact of widening credit spreads in the U.S. debt markets. An offsetting increase of $30 million was primarily due to compensation and overhead related expenses associated with RGAs international expansion and general growth in operations, including equity compensation expense. Additionally, a component of the increase in total expenses, was a $121 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Reinsurance Net Income Net income increased by $26 million, or 28%, to $118 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $92 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in net income was attributable to a 12% increase in premiums while policyholder benefits and claims increased by 9%, a 21% increase in net investment income while interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by 15%, and a 14% increase in other revenues. The increase in premiums, net of the increase in policyholder benefits and claims, added $127 million to net income which was primarily due to added business in force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international operations. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims was partially offset by unfavorable mortality and an increase in the liabilities associated with RGAs Argentine pension business, both in the prior year period. The increase in net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances added $60 million to net income and was due to growth in the invested asset base. The increase in invested assets, and net investment income, substantially derived from the issuance of notes and a collateral financing facility, which increased interest expense within other expenses as described below. The increase in other revenues added $5 million to net income and was primarily related to an increase in investment product fees on asset intensive business and financial reinsurance fees during 2006, partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains in the prior year period. These increases in net income were partially offset by a $153 million increase in other expenses and a $10 million decrease in net investment gains (losses), all net of income tax. Additionally, a higher effective tax rate in 2006 reduced net income by $3 million. The increase in other expenses was primarily related to expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, interest expense associated with RGAs issuance of $850 million 30 year notes to provide long term collateral for Regulation XXX statutory reserves in June 2006 and $400 million of junior subordinated notes in December 2005, minority interest expense, and equity compensation expense. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $613 million, or 14%, to $5,146 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $4,533 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in such revenues was primarily associated with growth in premiums of $479 million from new facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in all RGA operating segments, including the U.S., which contributed $220 million; Asia Pacific, which contributed $138 million; Canada, which contributed $86 million; and Europe and South Africa, which contributed $35 million. Premium 109 Table of Contents levels were significantly influenced by large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Net investment income increased by $126 million, primarily due to growth in the invested asset base from net proceeds of RGAs $850 million 30 year notes offering in June 2006 and $400 million junior subordinated note offering in December 2005, positive operating cash inflows and additional deposits associated with the coinsurance of annuity products. Investment yields were down slightly compared to the prior year period. The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a decrease related to a realignment of economic capital. Other revenues increased by $8 million primarily due to an increase in investment product fees on asset intensive business and financial reinsurance fees during 2006, partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains. Additionally, a component of the increase in total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), was a $36 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. Expenses Total expenses increased by $554 million, or 13%, to $4,971 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $4,417 million for the comparable 2005 period. The increase in total expenses was commensurate with the growth in revenues and was primarily attributable to an increase of $284 million in policyholder benefits and claims, primarily associated with growth in insurance in force of $245 billion, and a $34 million increase in interest credited due to growth in policyholder account balances associated with the coinsurance of annuity products, which is generally offset by a corresponding increase in net investment income. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of $284 million was partially offset by favorable underwriting results in RGAs international operations in the current year period, unfavorable mortality experience in the U.S. and the United Kingdom in the prior year period, and a $33 million increase in the liabilities associated with the Argentine pension business in the prior year period. Other expenses increased by $236 million due to a $92 million increase in expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, a $47 million increase in interest expense primarily associated with RGAs issuance of $850 million 30 year notes in June 2006 and $400 million of junior subordinated notes in December 2005, as well as a $47 million increase in minority interest expense on the larger earnings base in the current period. The remaining increase of $50 million was primarily related to overhead related expenses associated with RGAs international expansion and general growth in operations, including equity compensation expense. Additionally, a component of the increase in total expenses was a $33 million increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. 110 Table of Contents Corporate Other The following table presents consolidated financial information for Corporate Other for the years indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 35 $ 35 $ 22 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1 Net investment income 1,460 1,046 699 Other revenues 63 34 30 Net investment gains (losses) 47 (154 ) (48 ) Total revenues 1,605 961 704 Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims 47 37 (15 ) Other expenses 1,400 1,349 955 Total expenses 1,447 1,386 940 Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income tax 158 (425 ) (236 ) Income tax benefit (114 ) (419 ) (215 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 272 (6 ) (21 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax 35 3,134 1,167 Net income 307 3,128 1,146 Preferred stock dividends 137 134 63 Net income available to common shareholders $ 170 $ 2,994 $ 1,083 Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006 Corporate Other Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased by $278 million, to a gain of $272 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $6 million for the comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase were lower net investment losses of $132 million, net of income tax, resulting in a net investment gain. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations increased by $146 million. The increase in income from continuing operations was primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower corporate expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in the prior year, and lower legal cost of $269 million, $56 million, $19 million, $17 million, and $7 million, respectively, each of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on debt, higher interest on tax contingencies, and higher interest credited to bankholder deposits of $86 million, $23 million, and $3 million respectively, each of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits decreased by $103 million over the comparable 2006 period due to the Companys implementation of FIN 48, the difference of finalizing the Companys 2006 tax return in 2007 when compared to finalizing the Companys 2005 tax return in 2006 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $443 million, or 40%, to $1,558 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,115 million for the comparable 2006 period. This increase was primarily due to increased net investment income of $414 million, mainly on fixed maturity securities, driven by a higher asset base related to the reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties during the fourth quarter of 2006 and the investment of proceeds from issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing arrangements to support statutory 111 Table of Contents reserves in May 2007 and December 2007. Net investment income also increased on other limited partnerships, real estate and real estate joint ventures, and mortgage loans. Other revenues increased by $29 million primarily related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of GALIC, offset by an adjustment of surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies. Also included as a component of total revenues was the elimination of intersegment amounts which was offset within total expenses. Expenses Total expenses increased by $61 million, or 4%, to $1,447 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,386 million for the comparable 2006 period. Interest expense was higher by $133 million due to the issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing arrangements in May 2007 and December 2007, respectively, and from settlement fees on the prepayment of shares subject to mandatory redemption in October 2007, partially offset by the maturity of senior notes in December 2006 and the reduction of commercial paper outstanding. Interest on tax contingencies was higher by $35 million as a result of an increase in published Internal Revenue Service (IRS) interest rates and a change in the method of estimating interest expense on tax contingencies associated with the Companys implementation of FIN 48. As a result of higher interest rates, interest credited on bank deposits increased by $5 million at MetLife Bank. Corporate expenses are lower by $86 million primarily due to lower corporate support expenses of $63 million, which included advertising, start up costs for new products and information technology costs, and lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions of $23 million. Integration costs incurred in 2006 period were $25 million. Legal costs were lower by $11 million primarily due to a reduction in the current year of $35 million of legal liabilities resulting from the settlement of certain cases, lower other legal costs of $3 million partially offset by higher amortization and valuation of an asbestos insurance recoverable of $27 million. Also included as a component of total expenses were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues. Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005 Corporate Other Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Income (loss) from continuing operations increased by $15 million, or 71%, to ($6) million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from ($21) million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, contributed $111 million during the first six months of 2006 to income (loss) from continuing operations, which included $3 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $96 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease were higher investment losses of $66 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and the increase of net investment losses, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $30 million. The increase in income (loss) from continuing operations was primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower integration costs and higher other revenues of $104 million, $62 million, and $4 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on debt (principally associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers acquisition), corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits, policyholder benefits and claims and legal related liabilities of $125 million, $111 million, $55 million, $30 million and $5 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits increased by $113 million over the comparable 2005 period due to the difference of finalizing the Companys 2005 tax return in 2006 when compared to finalizing the Companys 2004 tax return in 2005 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments. Revenues Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $363 million, or 48%, to $1,115 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $752 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $200 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, revenues increased by $163 million, or 22%, from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily attributable to increased net investment income of $171 million primarily from increases in 112 Table of Contents income on fixed maturity securities due to improved yields from lengthening of the duration and a higher asset base, and the impact of higher short term interest rates on cash equivalents and short term investments. The increase also resulted from a higher asset base invested in mortgage loans on real estate, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership interests and was partially offset by a decline in securities lending results and leveraged leases. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased other revenues of $5 million, which primarily consisted of increased surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies. Also included as a component of total revenues were the intersegment eliminations which were offset within total expenses. Expenses Total expenses increased by $446 million, or 47%, to $1,386 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $940 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs, contributed $59 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $387 million, or 41%, for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher interest expense of $192 million. The principal reason was a result of the issuance of senior notes in 2005, which included $119 million of expenses from the financing of the acquisition of Travelers. Additionally, as a result of the issuance of commercial paper, short term interest expense increased by $67 million. Corporate support expenses were higher by $170 million primarily due to higher corporate support expenses of $107 million, which included advertising, start up costs for new products and information technology costs, a $35 million MetLife foundation contribution in the 2006 period and a $28 million benefit, in the 2005 period, associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to MLICs demutualization in 2000. As a result of growth in the business and higher interest rates, interest credited to bankholder deposits increased by $85 million at MetLife Bank. Policyholder benefits and claims increased $47 million from a 2005 period benefit associated with a reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Companys sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999. Legal related costs were higher by $8 million, predominantly from the reduction of previously established liabilities related to legal disputes during the 2005 period. Integration costs were lower by $95 million. Also included as a component of total expenses were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Capital RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels. Asset/Liability Management The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Financial Management and Oversight Asset/Liability 113 Table of Contents Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific Asset/Liability Management Committees (ALM Committees). The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. The Company establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. In executing these asset/liability matching strategies, management regularly reevaluates the estimates used in determining the approximate amounts and timing of payments to or on behalf of policyholders for insurance liabilities. Many of these estimates are inherently subjective and could impact the Companys ability to achieve its asset/liability management goals and objectives. Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Companys liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, excluding securities lending) was $12.3 billion and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling 12 month forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its cash needs under various scenarios that include the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including GICs, and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements beyond normal liquidity, the Company has multiple alternatives available based on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. The Companys ability to sell investment assets could be limited by accounting rules including rules relating to the intent and ability to hold impaired securities until the market value of those securities recovers. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a statutory legal entity are available to fund any obligation of the general account within that legal entity. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to or cost of liquidity. Liquidity Sources Cash Flows from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and marketable fixed maturity and equity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending activities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $188.4 billion and $186.5 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, junior 114 Table of Contents subordinated debt securities, shares subject to mandatory redemption, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had outstanding $667 million and $1.4 billion in short term debt, respectively, and at December 31, 2007 and 2006, had outstanding $9.6 billion and $9.1 billion in long term debt, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had outstanding $5.7 billion and $850 million in collateral financing arrangements, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had outstanding $4.5 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, in junior subordinated debt and $159 million and $278 million, respectively, in shares subject to mandatory redemption. Debt Issuances. In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV (Trust IV), a variable interest entity (VIE) consolidated by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the Trust Securities) with a face amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million ($694 million). The Trust Securities will be exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment. The final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067. The Holding Company may cause the redemption of the Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2032 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make whole price. Interest on the Trust Securities or debentures is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the Trust Securities or debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In connection with the issuance of the Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a replacement capital covenant (RCC). As a part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2057, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2037 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston (MRC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated financial institution, $2.5 billion of 35 year surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus 55 basis points, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. Simultaneous with issuing the surplus notes, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution, under which the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of 3 month LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of 3 month LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in connection with any early termination of this agreement. A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes were placed in trust to support MRCs statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated 115 Table of Contents by the Company. At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of $1.9 billion associated with the transaction. In May 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina (MRSC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a 30 year collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation A XXX). At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. The collateral financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing. Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed in trust to support MRSCs statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trust. Simultaneous with entering into the collateral financing arrangement, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trust established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of 3 month LIBOR plus 70 basis points, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of $2.3 billion associated with this transaction. In March 2007, RGA issued $300 million of 10 year senior notes with a fixed rate of 5.625%, payable semiannually. RGA used $50 million of the net proceeds of the offering to repay existing debt during the year ended December 31, 2007. In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15, 2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make whole price. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not including, December 15, 2036, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding Company entered into a RCC. As part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2036 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. In June 2006, Timberlake Financial L.L.C., (Timberlake Financial), a subsidiary of RGA, completed an offering of $850 million of Series A Floating Rate Insured Notes due June 2036 in a private placement. Interest on the notes accrues at an annual rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 29 basis points payable monthly. The payment of interest and principal on the notes is insured through a financial guaranty insurance policy with a third party. The notes represent senior, secured indebtedness of Timberlake Financial with no recourse to RGA or its other subsidiaries. 116 Table of Contents Up to $150 million of additional notes may be offered in the future. In order to make payments of principal and interest on the notes, Timberlake Financial will rely upon the receipt of interest and principal payments on surplus note and dividend payments from its wholly owned subsidiary, Timberlake Reinsurance Company II (Timberlake Re), a South Carolina captive insurance company. The ability of Timberlake Re to make interest and principal payments on the surplus note and dividend payments to Timberlake Financial is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval and the performance of specified term life insurance policies with guaranteed level premiums retroceded by RGAs subsidiary, RGA Reinsurance Company (RGA Reinsurance), to Timberlake Re. Proceeds from the offering of the notes, along with a $113 million direct investment by RGA, collateralize the notes and are not available to satisfy the general obligations of RGA or the Company. Most of these assets were placed in a trust and provide long term collateral as support for statutory reserves required by U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation XXX) on term life insurance policies with guaranteed level premium periods reinsured by RGA Reinsurance. The trust is consolidated by Timberlake Re which in turn is consolidated by Timberlake Financial. Timberlake Financial is considered to be a VIE and RGA is considered to be the primary beneficiary. As such, the results of Timberlake Financial have been consolidated by RGA and ultimately by the Company. At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of $899 million associated with the transaction. In addition the Company held $50 million in custody as of December 31, 2007. MetLife Bank has entered into several repurchase agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the FHLB of NY) whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Banks residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks obligations under the repurchase agreements. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, MetLife Bank received advances totaling $390 million, $260 million and $775 million, respectively, from the FHLB of NY, which were included in long term debt. MetLife Bank also made repayments of $175 million, $117 million and $25 million to the FHLB of NY during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of the Companys liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $1.2 billion and $998 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in long term debt. In December 2005, RGA issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $400 million. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 6.75% up to but not including the scheduled redemption date, December 15, 2015. The debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make whole price. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date of December 15, 2015, interest on these debentures will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.665%, payable quarterly in arrears. The final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2065. RGA has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the debentures for a period up to ten years. Upon an optional or mandatory deferral of interest payments, RGA is generally not permitted to pay common stock dividends or make payments of interest or principal on securities which rank equal or junior to the subordinated debentures, until the accrued and unpaid interest on the subordinated debentures is paid. Interest compounds during periods of deferral. In June 2005, the Company issued, in connection with the common equity units more fully described in Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units, $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debentures due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million. In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). 117 Table of Contents In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). MetLife Funding, Inc. (MetLife Funding), a subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million and $11 million, respectively. MetLife Funding raises cash from various funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to the Holding Company, MLIC and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of MLIC and other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of $358 million and $840 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. Credit Facilities. The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2007. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and at December 31, 2007, $3.0 billion of the facilities also served as back up lines of credit for the Companys commercial paper programs. Information on these credit facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Borrower(s) Expiration Capacity Issuances Drawdowns Commitments (In millions) MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. June 2012 (1) $ 3,000 $ 1,532 $ $ 1,468 MetLife Bank, N.A. July 2008 (2) 200 200 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated May 2008 30 30 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated September 2012 (3) 750 406 344 Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated March 2011 44 44 Total $ 4,024 $ 1,938 $ 30 $ 2,056 (1) In June 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding entered into a $3.0 billion credit agreement with various financial institutions, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2009 expiration, and the $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2010 expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and replaced by the aforementioned facility. (2) In July 2007, the facility was extended for one year to July 2008. (3) In September 2007, RGA and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement with various financial institutions. Under the credit agreement, RGA may borrow and obtain letters of credit for general corporate purposes for its own account or for the account of its subsidiaries with an overall credit facility amount of up to $750 million. The credit agreement replaced a former credit agreement in the amount of $600 million which was scheduled to expire on September 29, 2010. 118 Table of Contents Committed Facilities. Information on committed facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Maturity Account Party/Borrower(s) Expiration Capacity Drawdowns Issuances Commitments (Years) (In millions) Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd., MetLife, Inc., Missouri Re June 2016 (1) $ 500 $ $ 490 $ 10 8 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. December 2027 (2) 650 410 240 20 Timberlake Financial L.L.C. June 2036 (3) 1,000 850 150 29 MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina MetLife, Inc. June 2037 (4) 3,500 2,382 1,118 30 MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont MetLife, Inc. December 2037 (2), (5) 2,896 1,235 1,661 30 Total $ 8,546 $ 3,232 $ 2,135 $ 3,179 (1) Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015, March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. (2) The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. (3) As described under Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances, RGA may, at its option, offer up to $150 million of additional notes under this facility in the future. (4) In May 2007, MRSC terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial institutions on April 25, 2005. In its place the Company entered into a 30 year collateral financing arrangement as described under Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances, which may be extended by agreement of the Company and the financial institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility for an additional one year period. At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. (5) In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. (Exeter) terminated four letters of credit, with expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated financial institution in an aggregate amount of $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as collateral for Exeters obligations under a reinsurance agreement that was recaptured by MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company (MLI USA) in December 2007. MLI USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont (MRV). To collateralize its reinsurance obligations, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a 30 year, $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated financial institution. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding $4.2 billion in letters of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned credit facilities, from various financial institutions, of which $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion were part of committed and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Companys actual future cash funding requirements. Liquidity Uses Debt Repayments. On October 31, 2007, the Company redeemed $125 million of 8.525% GenAmerica Capital I Capital Securities which were due to mature on June 30, 2027. As a result of this repayment, the Company recognized additional interest expense of $10 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, RGA repaid $50 million of long term debt using the proceeds from its March 2007 10 year senior notes offering. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances for further information. 119 Table of Contents During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, MetLife Bank made repayments of $175 million, $117 million and $25 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances for further information. The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in December 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005.RGA repaid a $100 million 7.25% senior note which matured in April 2006. MLIC repaid a $250 million 7% surplus note which matured on November 1, 2005. Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: More Than More Than Three Years One Year and and Less Less Than Less Than Than Five More Than Contractual Obligations Total One Year Three Years Years Five Years (In millions) Future policy benefits (1) $ 288,837 $ 6,823 $ 9,471 $ 9,742 $ 262,801 Policyholder account balances (2) 212,049 25,640 29,028 28,278 129,103 Other policyholder liabilities (3) 10,592 8,322 93 112 2,065 Short term debt (4) 667 667 Long term debt (4) 16,832 975 1,797 2,330 11,730 Collateral financing arrangements (4) 12,800 301 603 660 11,236 Junior subordinated debt securities (4) 8,758 1,314 1,398 324 5,722 Shares subject to mandatory redemption (4) 785 13 26 26 720 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions (5) 44,136 44,136 Commitments to lend funds (6) 10,559 8,063 1,141 639 716 Operating leases (7) 2,167 254 442 316 1,155 Other (8) 8,278 7,711 6 6 555 Total $ 616,460 $ 104,219 $ 44,005 $ 42,433 $ 425,803 (1) Future policyholder benefits include liabilities related to traditional whole life policies, term life policies, closeout and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, MTF agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long term disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within future policyholder benefits are contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death as well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. 120 Table of Contents Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of $1.1 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above. Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities associated with property and casualty contracts of $1.6 billion have been included using an estimate of the ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid under property and casualty contracts is not determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years category displays estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years from the present date. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $288.8 billion exceeds the liability amount of $132.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. For the majority of the Companys insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under generally accepted accounting principles. Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table above due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Asset/Liability Management. (2) Policyholder account balances include liabilities related to conventional guaranteed investment contracts, guaranteed investment contracts associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total control accounts, bank deposits, individual and group universal life, variable universal life and company owned life insurance. Included within policyholder account balances are contracts where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so, as well as those where the timing of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting adjustments of $794 million have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above as they represent an accounting convention and not a contractual obligation. Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies 121 Table of Contents currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot rates. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $212.0 billion exceeds the liability amount of $137.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. See also comments under footnote 1 regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balances. (3) Other policyholder liabilities is comprised of other policyholder funds, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related to these liabilities are as follows: (a) Other policyholder funds includes liabilities for incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group term life, long term disability, LTC and dental; policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to unearned revenue of $2.0 billion have been excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above because they reflect an accounting convention and not a contractual obligation. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table above related to other policyholder funds is equal to the liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the less than one year category due to the short term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. (b) Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the table above in the less than one year category at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet. (c) The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long term projection of the performance of the closed block, management has reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. This was done to reflect the long duration of the liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment. (4) Amounts presented in the table above for short term debt, long term debt, collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities and shares subject to mandatory redemption differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above also include interest on such obligations as described below. Short term debt consists principally of 90 day commercial paper, with a remaining maturity of 54 days, and carries a variable rate of interest. The contractual obligation for short term debt presented in the table above represents the amounts due upon maturity of the commercial paper plus the related variable interest which is calculated using the prevailing rates at December 31, 2007 through the date of maturity without consideration of any further issuances of commercial paper upon maturity of the amounts outstanding at December 31, 2007. Long term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt is computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2007 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt is computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2007 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. 122 Table of Contents Junior subordinated debt bears interest at fixed interest rates through their respective redemption dates. Interest was computed using the stated rate on the obligation through the scheduled redemption date as it is the Companys expectation that the debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity date would increase the contractual obligation by $6.2 billion. Shares subject to mandatory redemption bear interest at fixed interest rates through their respective mandatory redemption dates. Interest on shares subject to mandatory redemption was computed using the stated fixed rate on the obligation through maturity. Long term debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of $13 million, $15 million, $3 million and $24 million, in the less than one year, one to three years, three to five years and more than five years categories, respectively. (5) The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the less than one year category in the table above. The Company also holds non cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of $718 million as of December 31, 2007. (6) The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration date of the commitment. As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the less than one year category in the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the less than one year category in the table above. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. (7) As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those leases obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. (8) Other includes those other liability balances which represent contractual obligations, as well as other miscellaneous contractual obligations of $32 million not included elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the table above is principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the less than one year category. The other liabilities presented in the table above differs from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by $6.1 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such as minority interests, legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. The net funded status of the Companys pension and other postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above. Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary contributions of $150 million to be made by the Company to the pension plan in 2008 and the discretionary contributions of $116 million, based on the next years expected gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2008. Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Companys cash flows. Excluded from the table above are deferred income tax liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, and accrued interest of $2.5 billion, $1.0 billion, and $252 million, respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also excluded from the table. 123 Table of Contents See also Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of the funds that are separately administered by the Company. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statements of income. The separate account liabilities will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to its consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans, and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance as required. Support Agreements. The Holding Company and several of its subsidiaries (each, an Obligor) are parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entitys insurance liabilities or for certain policies reinsured by such entity. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Companys liquidity resources. Litigation. Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Other. Based on managements analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including MLIC, that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. The nature of the Companys diverse product portfolio and customer base lessens the likelihood that normal operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity. Consolidated Cash Flows. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.4 billion to $10.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily due to higher net investment income and premiums, fees and other revenues. 124 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $1.4 billion to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to $8.0 billion for the comparable 2005 period. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to reinsurance receivables related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in operating cash flows in 2006 over the comparable 2005 period primarily attributable to the acquisition of Travelers. Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.9 billion and $15.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by financing activities decreased by $11.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year. Net cash provided by financing activities decreased primarily as a result of a decrease of $13.0 billion in the amount of securities lending cash collateral received in connection with the Companys securities lending program and other cash collateral, $1.2 billion of an increase in shares acquired under the Companys common stock repurchase program, a decrease in short term debt borrowings of $0.8 billion and a decrease of $0.6 billion in net cash provided by policyholder account balances. In addition, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.5 billion lower than the comparable 2006 period due to the issuance of $0.7 billion of junior subordinated debt securities in 2007 as compared to $1.2 billion issued in 2006. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the issuance of collateral financing arrangements of $4.0 billion and an increase in net issuances versus net repayments of long term debt of $0.9 billion. Net cash provided by financing activities was $15.4 billion and $14.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by financing activities increased by $0.9 billion primarily as a result of an increase of $7.2 billion in the amount of securities lending cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program, a decrease in long term debt repayments of $0.7 billion, an increase in the issuance of collateral financing arrangements of $0.9 billion and an increase in short term debt borrowings of $0.1 billion. Such increases were offset by decreases in financing cash flows resulting from a decrease in issuance of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt securities, and long term debt aggregating $6.6 billion which were principally used to finance the acquisition of Travelers in 2005, combined with a decrease of $0.9 billion associated with a decrease in net policyholder account balance deposits and an increase of $0.5 billion of shares acquired under the Companys common stock repurchase program which was resumed in the fourth quarter of 2006. Net cash used in investing activities was $10.6 billion and $18.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $8.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to prior year. In the current year, cash available for the purchase of invested assets decreased by $11.5 billion as a result of the reduction in cash provided by financing activities discussed above. Also, partially offsetting this decrease was an increase of $3.4 billion in net cash provided by operating activities discussed above. The lower amount of cash available for investing activities resulted in a decrease in net purchases of fixed maturity securities of $15.9 billion, other invested assets of $1.4 billion, and a decrease in net origination of mortgage and consumer loans of $0.6 billion. This was partially offset by increases in the net purchases of real estate and real estate joint ventures of $6.3 billion, equity securities of $1.4 billion and other limited partnership interests of $0.8 billion. Also, there was a decrease in cash provided by short term investments of $0.5 billion. In addition, the 2007 period includes the sale of MetLife Australias annuities and pension businesses and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon of $0.7 billion, while the 2006 period includes additional consideration paid related to purchases of businesses $0.1 billion. Net cash used in investing activities was $18.9 billion and $22.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to prior year. Net cash used in investing activities in the prior year included cash used to acquire Travelers of $11.0 billion, less cash acquired of $0.9 billion for a net total cash paid of $10.1 billion, which was funded by $6.8 billion in securities issuances and $4.2 billion of cash provided by operations and the sale of invested assets. During the current year, cash available for investment as a result of cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program increased by $7.2 billion. Cash available from operations and available for investment decreased by $1.4 billion. Cash available for the purchase of invested assets increased by $4.3 billion as a result of the increase in securities lending activities of $7.2 billion as well as a decrease in the cash required for acquisitions of $4.2 billion, offset by the decrease in issuance of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt securities, and long term debt aggregating $6.6 billion as well as the decrease in cash flow from operations of $1.4 billion. Cash available for investing activities was used to increase purchases of fixed maturity 125 Table of Contents securities, other invested assets, and short term investments, as well as increase the origination of mortgage and consumer loans and decrease net sales of real estate and real estate joint ventures and equity securities. The Holding Company Capital Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies Capital. The Holding Company and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking regulatory agencies, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Banks risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory agencies well capitalized standards and all of MetLife, Inc.s risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the adequately capitalized standards. The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: MetLife, Inc. RBC Ratios Bank Holding Company December 31, Regulatory Regulatory Requirements Requirements 2007 2006 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 9.87 % 9.89 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 9.56 % 9.51 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.56 % 5.55 % 4.00 % n/a MetLife Bank RBC Ratios Bank December 31, Regulatory Regulatory Requirements Requirements 2007 2006 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 12.60 % 11.44 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 12.03 % 10.88 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 6.32 % 5.98 % 4.00 % 5.00 % Liquidity Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and is provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to liquidity. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings. 126 Table of Contents Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. Liquidity Sources Dividends. The primary source of the Holding Companys liquidity is dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. Management of the Holding Company cannot provide assurances that the Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable insurance departments will not disapprove any dividends that such insurance subsidiaries must submit for approval. The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid: 2008 2007 2006 Permitted Permitted Permitted w/o w/o w/o Company Approval (1) Paid (2) Approval (3) Paid (2) Approval (3) (In millions) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company $ 1,299 $ 500 $ 919 $ 863 $ 863 MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut $ 1,026 $ 690 (5) $ 690 $ 917 (4) $ Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company $ 113 $ $ 104 $ 2,300 (6) $ 85 Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company $ $ 400 $ 16 $ 300 $ 178 (1) Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2008 without prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified date during 2008, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. (2) Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory approval. (3) Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval. (4) Includes a return of capital of $259 million. (5) Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million was paid to the Holding Company. (6) This dividend reflects the proceeds associated with the sale of Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties to be used for general corporate purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2007, $190 million in dividends from other subsidiaries were paid, of which $176 million were returns of capital, to the Holding Company. MetLife Mexico S.A. paid $116 million in dividends to the Holding Company for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, there were returns of capital of $154 million to the Holding Company from other subsidiaries. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable fixed maturity securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending activities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had $2.3 billion and $3.9 billion in liquid assets, respectively. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of both short term and long term instruments, commercial paper, medium and long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers 127 Table of Contents the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had $310 million and $616 million in short term debt outstanding, respectively. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had $7.0 billion of unaffiliated long term debt outstanding. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had $500 million of affiliated long term debt outstanding. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had $3.4 billion of junior subordinated debt securities outstanding. At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company had $2.4 billion in collateral financing arrangements outstanding. The Holding Company did not have any collateral financing arrangements outstanding at December 31, 2006. In November 2007, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration statement (the 2007 Registration Statement) with the SEC, which was automatically effective upon filing, in accordance with SEC rules which also allow for pay as you go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendment for companies, such as the Holding Company, which qualify as Well Known Seasoned Issuers. The 2007 Registration Statement registered an unlimited amount of debt and equity securities and supersedes the shelf registration statement that the Holding Company filed in April 2005. The terms of any offering will be established at the time of the offering. Debt Issuances. As described more fully in Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances, during December 2007, Trust IV issued Trust Securities with a face amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million ($694 million) and a fixed rate of interest of 7.875% up to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. The beneficial interest of Trust IV held by the Holding Company is not represented by an investment in Trust IV but rather by a financing agreement between the Holding Company and Trust IV. The assets of Trust IV are $700 million of 7.375% surplus notes of MLIC, which are scheduled to mature December 15, 2037, and rights under the financing agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding Company has the obligation to make payments (i) semiannually at a fixed rate of 0.50% of the surplus notes outstanding and owned by Trust IV or if greater (ii) equal to the difference between the Trust Securities interest payment and the interest received by Trust IV on the surplus notes. The ability of MLIC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes to the Holding Company is contingent upon regulatory approval. The Trust Securities, will be exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment and the Holding Company is ultimately responsible for repayment of the junior subordinated debentures. The Holding Companys other rights and obligations as it relates to the deferral of interest, redemption, replacement capital obligation and replacement capital covenant associated with the issuance of the Trust Securities are more fully described in Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances. As described more fully in Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances: In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRCs reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of 3 month LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of 3 month LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in connection with any early termination of this agreement. The Holding Companys net cost of 57 basis points has been allocated to MRC. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this amount was immaterial. In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSCs reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trust established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of 3 month LIBOR plus 70 basis 128 Table of Contents points, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. As a result of this agreement, the Holding Company effectively assumed the $2.4 billion liability under the collateral financing arrangement along with a beneficial interest in the trust holding the associated assets. The Holding Company simultaneously contributed to MRSC its beneficial interest in the trust, along with any return to be received on the investment portfolio held by the trust. The Holding Company allocates the financing costs associated with the collateral financing arrangement to MRSC. In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances for further information. In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 6.07% maturing in 2016. In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.70% maturing in 2016. In December 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million of affiliated long term debt with an interest rate of 5.24% maturing in 2015. In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). These notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act. The following table summarizes the Holding Companys outstanding senior notes issuances, excluding any premium or discount: Issue Date Principal Interest Rate Maturity (In millions) June 2005 $ 1,000 5.00 % 2015 June 2005 $ 1,000 5.70 % 2035 June 2005 (1) $ 794 5.25 % 2020 December 2004 (1) $ 695 5.38 % 2024 June 2004 $ 350 5.50 % 2014 June 2004 $ 750 6.38 % 2034 November 2003 $ 500 5.00 % 2013 November 2003 $ 200 5.88 % 2033 December 2002 $ 400 5.38 % 2012 December 2002 $ 600 6.50 % 2032 November 2001 $ 750 6.13 % 2011 (1) This amount represents the translation of pounds sterling into U.S. dollars using the noon buying rate on December 31, 2007 of $1.9843 as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units for a description of $2,134 million of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the issuance of common equity units. Preferred Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Holding Company issued no new preferred stock. 129 Table of Contents In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the Series A preferred shares) with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million. In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares of 6.50% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B preferred shares, together with the Series A preferred shares, collectively, the Preferred Shares) with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by the Holding Companys Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of: (i) 1.00% above 3 month LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Companys common stock or any other securities ranking junior to the Preferred Shares unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for. The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and shareholders equity levels. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn sufficient operating income. The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding Company. The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date, subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be redeemable at the Holding Companys option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus declared and unpaid dividends. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Uses Dividends for dividends paid on the Companys preferred stock. Common Equity Units. In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public offering on June 21, 2005. Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per unit and consists of: a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II (Series A Trust), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000. a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series B trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust III (Series B Trust and, together with the Series A Trust, the Capital Trusts), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000. a stock purchase contract under which the holder of the common equity unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $12.50. 130 Table of Contents The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Capital Trusts and $64 million in trust common securities issued equally by the Capital Trusts. The common and preferred securities of the Capital Trusts, totaling $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Capital Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Capital Trusts. The Series A Trust and Series B Trust will each make quarterly distributions on the common and preferred securities at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively. The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Capital Trusts. The guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contract. The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates to provide the holders of the common equity units with the proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the Series A trust preferred securities and through February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a junior subordinated debt security payable on August 15, 2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions. Each stock purchase contract requires (i) the Holding Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per stock purchase contract thereafter; and (ii) the holder of the common equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Holding Companys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock during a specified 20 day period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Holding Company will receive proceeds of $2,070 million and issue between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of its common stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at the option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate. Credit Facilities. In June 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding entered into a $3.0 billion credit agreement with various financial institutions, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2009 expiration, and the 131 Table of Contents $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2010 expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and replaced by the aforementioned facility. At December 31, 2007, $1.5 billion of letters of credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities on behalf of the Holding Company. Committed Facilities. Information on committed facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows: Letter of Credit Unused Maturity Account Party/Borrower(s) Expiration Capacity Drawdowns Issuances Commitments (Years) (In millions) Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd., MetLife, Inc., Missouri Re June 2016 (1) $500 $ $ 490 $ 10 8 Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. December 2027 (2) 650 410 240 20 MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina MetLife, Inc. June 2037 (3) 3,500 2,382 1,118 30 MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont MetLife, Inc. December 2037 (2),(4) 2,896 1,235 1,661 30 Total $7,546 $ 2,382 $ 2,135 $ 3,029 (1) Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015, March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. (2) The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. (3) In May 2007, MRSC terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various institutional lenders on April 25, 2005. In its place the Company entered into a 30 year collateral financing arrangement as described under Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Debt Issuances, which may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company and the financial institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility for an additional one year period. At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. (4) In December 2007, Exeter terminated four letters of credit, with expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated financial institution in an aggregate amount of $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as collateral for Exeters obligations under a reinsurance agreement that was recaptured by MLI USA in December 2007. MLI USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance agreement with MRV. To collateralize its reinsurance obligations, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a 30 year, $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated financial institution. Letters of Credit. At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company had $1.5 billion in outstanding letters of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned credit facilities, from various financial institutions. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Holding Companys actual future cash funding requirements. Liquidity Uses The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the Holding Companys common stock. 132 Table of Contents Dividends. The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock: Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) October 23, 2007 November 6, 2007 December 14, 2007 $ 0.74 $ 541 October 24, 2006 November 6, 2006 December 15, 2006 $ 0.59 $ 450 October 25, 2005 November 7, 2005 December 15, 2005 $ 0.52 $ 394 Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding Companys Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Preferred Shares is as follows: Dividend Series A Series A Series B Series B Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) November 15, 2007 November 30, 2007 December 17, 2007 $ 0.4230476 $ 11 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 15, 2007 August 31, 2007 September 17, 2007 $ 0.4063333 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 May 15, 2007 May 31, 2007 June 15, 2007 $ 0.4060062 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 March 5, 2007 February 28, 2007 March 15, 2007 $ 0.3975000 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 $ 41 $ 96 November 15, 2006 November 30, 2006 December 15, 2006 $ 0.4038125 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 15, 2006 August 31, 2006 September 15, 2006 $ 0.4043771 $ 10 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 May 16, 2006 May 31, 2006 June 15, 2006 $ 0.3775833 $ 9 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 March 6, 2006 February 28, 2006 March 15, 2006 $ 0.3432031 $ 9 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 $ 38 $ 96 November 15, 2005 November 30, 2005 December 15, 2005 $ 0.3077569 $ 8 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 22, 2005 August 31, 2005 September 15, 2005 $ 0.2865690 $ 7 $ 0.4017361 $ 24 $ 15 $ 48 See Subsequent Events. Affiliated Capital Transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company invested an aggregate of $2.8 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, in various affiliates. In December 2005, RGA repurchased 1.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of $76 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to RGA from third parties and purchased the shares in the open market over the subsequent few months to return to the lenders. RGA would either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the shares. These repurchases resulted in an increase in the Companys ownership percentage of RGA to approximately 53% at December 31, 2005 from approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. In February 2006, the final purchase price was determined, resulting in a cash settlement substantially equal to the aggregate cost. RGA recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. At December 31, 2007, the Companys ownership was approximately 52% of RGA. 133 Table of Contents The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to affiliates and consisted of the following at: December 31, Affiliate Interest Rate Maturity Date 2007 2006 (In millions) MLIC 3 month LIBOR + 1.15% December 31, 2009 $ 700 $ MLIC 7.13% December 15, 2032 400 400 MLIC 7.13% January 15, 2033 100 100 MLIC 5.00% December 31, 2007 800 MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company 7.35% April 1, 2035 400 400 Total $ 1,600 $ 1,700 Debt Repayments. The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in December 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005. Share Repurchase. In October 2004, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In February 2007, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In September 2007, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program which began after the completion of the $1 billion common stock repurchase program authorized in February 2007. In January 2008, the Holding Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program, which began after the completion of the September 2007 program. (See Subsequent Events). Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Exchange Act and in privately negotiated transactions. The Holding Company has entered into the following accelerated common stock repurchase agreements: In December 2007, the Holding Company entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the Holding Company paid the bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange for 6.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the bank delivered 1.1 million additional shares of Holding Companys common stock to the Holding Company resulting in a total of 7.7 million shares being repurchased under the agreement. At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company recorded the obligation to pay $450 million to the bank as a reduction of additional paid in capital. Upon settlement with the bank, the Holding Company increased additional paid in capital and reduced treasury stock. In November 2007, the Holding Company repurchased 11.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an initial cost of $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. Also, in November 2007, the Holding Company received a cash adjustment of $19 million based on the trading price of the common stock during the repurchase period, for a final purchase price of $731 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. In March 2007, the Holding Company repurchased 11.9 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In June 2007, the Holding Company paid a cash adjustment of $17 million for a final purchase price of $767 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. 134 Table of Contents In December 2006, the Holding Company repurchased 4.0 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $232 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In February 2007, the Holding Company paid a cash adjustment of $8 million for a final purchase price of $240 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. In December 2004, the Holding Company repurchased 7.3 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $300 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In April 2005, the Holding Company received a cash adjustment of $7 million based on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the common stock, for a final purchase price of $293 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. The Company also repurchased 3.1 million and 4.6 million shares through open market purchases for $200 million and $268 million, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cumulatively, the Company repurchased 26.6 million and 8.6 million shares of its common stock for $1.7 billion and $500 million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2005. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 3.9 million, 3.1 million and 25.0 million shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $172 million, $102 million and $819 million, respectively, of which 22.4 million shares with a market value of $1 billion were issued in connection with the acquisition of Travelers of July 1, 2005. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $216 million remaining on the October 2004 common stock repurchase program which was subsequently reduced by $8 million to $208 million after the February 2007 cash adjustment to the December 2006 accelerated common stock repurchase agreement. The February 2007 stock repurchase program authorization was fully utilized during 2007. At December 31, 2007, $511 million remained on the Companys September 2007 common stock repurchase program. The $511 million remaining on the September 2007 common stock repurchase program was reduced by $450 million to $61 million upon settlement of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement executed during December 2007 but for which no settlement occurred until January 2008. Subsequent to the January 2008 authorization, the amount remaining under these repurchase programs was $1,061 million. After execution of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement in February 2008 and certain open market purchases as more fully described in Subsequent Events, the Companys remaining authorization is $261 million. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of MetLife, Inc.s common stock. See Subsequent Events for further information relating to common stock repurchases subsequent to December 31, 2007. Support Agreements. The Holding Company is party to various capital support commitments with certain of its subsidiaries and a corporation in which it owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, the Holding Company has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant demands upon the Holding Companys liquidity resources. Based on managements analysis and comparison of its current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, its portfolio of liquid assets, anticipated securities issuances and other anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses and meet its cash needs. 135 Table of Contents Subsequent Events Dividends On February 19, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors announced dividends of $0.3785745 per share, for a total of $9 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2008, the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable March 17, 2008 to shareholders of record as of February 29, 2008. Acquisitions On February 1, 2008, the Company announced its completion of the acquisition of SafeGuard Health Enterprises, Inc. (Safeguard) for approximately $190 million. Safeguard is primarily involved in providing dental and vision benefit plans, including health maintenance and preferred provider organization plan designs and administrative services. On January 2, 2008, the Company completed its acquisition of AFORE Actinver, S.A. de C.V. (Actinver) for approximately $125 million. Actinver manages retirement accounts for approximately 1.1 million individuals in Mexico. Stock Repurchases On January 15, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program, which began after the completion of an earlier $1 billion authorization that was announced in September 2007. As previously described, in December 2007, the Company entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid the bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange for 6.6 million shares of the Companys outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the bank delivered 1.1 million additional shares of the Companys common stock to the Company resulting in a total of 7.7 million shares being repurchased under the agreement. Upon settlement with the bank, the Company increased additional paid in capital and reduced treasury stock. In February 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the agreement, the Company paid the bank $711 million in cash and the bank delivered an initial amount of 11.2 million shares of the Companys outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Final settlement of the agreement is scheduled to take place during the first half of 2008. The final number of shares the Company is repurchasing under the terms of the agreement and the timing of the final settlement will depend on, among other things, prevailing market conditions and the market prices of the common stock during the repurchase period. The Company recorded the consideration paid as a reduction to stockholders equity. From January 1, 2008 to February 25, 2008, the Company also repurchased 1.6 million of its shares through open market purchases for $89 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $5.3 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. 136 Table of Contents Mortgage Loan Commitments The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $4.0 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. The purpose of these loans is to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1.2 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The purpose of these commitments and any related fundings is to enhance the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material. Lease Commitments The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other equipment. The Companys commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Uses Investment and Other. Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity Sources Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit for further descriptions of such arrangements. Share Based Arrangements In connection with the issuance of common equity units, the Holding Company issued forward stock purchase contracts under which the Holding Company will issue, in 2008 and 2009, between 39.0 and 47.8 million shares of its common stock, depending upon whether the share price is greater than $43.35 and less than $53.10. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Holding Company Liquidity Sources Common Equity Units. Guarantees In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum of $2.3 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by laws. Also, the Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Companys interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the 137 Table of Contents Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future. The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded a $1 million liability with respect to a guarantee previously provided to MLII, a former subsidiary. The Companys recorded liabilities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were $6 million and $5 million, respectively. In connection with synthetically created investment transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Companys maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced credits becomes worthless, was $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The credit default swaps expire at various times during the next ten years. Other Commitments MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (MICC) is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the FHLB of Boston) and holds $70 million of common stock of the FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2007 and 2006, which is included in equity securities. MICC has also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage backed securities, to collateralize MICCs obligations under the funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MICC, the FHLB of Bostons recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of MICCs liability to the FHLB of Boston. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was $726 million and $926 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage backed securities with fair values of $901 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. MLIC is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $339 million and $136 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MLIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC assets, including residential mortgage backed securities to collateralize MLICs obligations under the funding agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC, the FHLB of NYs recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of MLICs liability to the FHLB of NY. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of NY was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007, which is included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage backed securities with fair values of $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007. MLIC did not have any funding agreements with the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2006. MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $64 million and $54 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Banks residential mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks obligations under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, 138 Table of Contents the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. The amount of the Companys liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $1.2 billion and $998 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in long term debt. The advances on these repurchase agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage loans with fair values of $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. Collateral for Securities Lending The Company has non cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $40 million and $100 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Description of Plans Plan Description Overview The Subsidiaries sponsor and or administer various qualified and non qualified defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts, which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30 year U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of December 31, 2007, virtually all of the Subsidiaries obligations have been calculated using the traditional formula. The non qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits, in excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to certain executive level employees. The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for a covered subsidiary, may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits. Financial Summary Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), as amended, establishes the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the projected pension benefit obligation (PBO) is defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation (ABO) is the actuarial present value of vested and non vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary levels. The PBO and ABO of the pension plans are set forth in the following section. Prior to December 31, 2006, SFAS 87 also required the recognition of an additional minimum pension liability and an intangible asset (limited to unrecognized prior service cost) if the market value of pension plan assets was less than the ABO at the measurement date. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability over the allowable intangible asset was charged, net of taxes, to accumulated other comprehensive income. The Companys additional minimum pension liability was $78 million, and the intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability over the intangible asset of $66 million ($41 million, net of income tax) was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006, the Companys additional minimum pension liability was $92 million. The additional minimum pension liability of $59 million, net of income tax of $33 million, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. 139 Table of Contents SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions, as amended, (SFAS 106), establishes the accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations (EPBO) which represents the actuarial present value of all postretirement benefits expected to be paid after retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike the PBO for pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligation (APBO) represents the actuarial present value of future postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a particular date. The APBO is recorded in the financial statements and is set forth below. As described more fully in Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r) (SFAS 158), effective December 31, 2006. Upon adoption, the Company was required to recognize in the consolidated balance sheet the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, which is the PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans. The change to recognize funded status eliminated the additional minimum pension liability provisions of SFAS 87. In addition, the Company recognized as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in net periodic benefit cost at the date of adoption. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total consolidated stockholders equity. The following table summarizes the adjustments to the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet in order to effect the adoption of SFAS 158. December 31, 2006 Additional Minimum Pre Pension Adoption of Post SFAS 158 Liability SFAS 158 SFAS 158 Balance Sheet Caption Adjustments Adjustment Adjustment Adjustments (In millions) Other assets: Prepaid pension benefit cost $ 1,937 $ $ (993 ) $ 944 Other assets: Intangible asset $ 12 $ (12 ) $ $ Other liabilities: Accrued pension benefit cost $ (505 ) $ (14 ) $ (79 ) $ (598 ) Other liabilities: Accrued other postretirement benefit cost $ (802 ) $ $ (99 ) $ (901 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income, before income tax: Defined benefit plans $ (66 ) $ (26 ) $ (1,171 ) $ (1,263 ) Minority interest $ $ 8 Deferred income tax $ 8 $ 419 Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income tax: Defined benefit plans $ (41 ) $ (18 ) $ (744 ) $ (803 ) A December 31 measurement date is used for all the Companys defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 140 Table of Contents The benefit obligations and funded status of the Subsidiaries defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as determined in accordance with the applicable provisions described above, were as follows: December 31, Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2007 2006 2007 2006 (In millions) Benefit obligation at end of year $ 5,775 $ 5,959 $ 1,610 $ 2,073 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 6,550 6,305 1,183 1,172 Funded status at end of year $ 775 $ 346 $ (427 ) $ (901 ) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Other assets $ 1,393 $ 944 $ $ Other liabilities (618 ) (598 ) (427 ) (901 ) Net amount recognized $ 775 $ 346 $ (427 ) $ (901 ) Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss: Net actuarial (gains) losses $ 623 $ 1,123 $ (112 ) $ 328 Prior service cost (credit) 64 41 (193 ) (230 ) Net asset at transition 1 687 1,164 (305 ) 99 Deferred income tax and minority interest (251 ) (423 ) 109 (37 ) $ 436 $ 741 $ (196 ) $ 62 The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows: December 31, Qualified Plans Non Qualified Plans Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (In millions) Aggregate fair value of plan assets (principally Company contracts) $ 6,550 $ 6,305 $ $ $ 6,550 $ 6,305 Aggregate projected benefit obligation 5,174 5,381 601 578 5,775 5,959 Over (under) funded $ 1,376 $ 924 $ (601 ) $ (578 ) $ 775 $ 346 The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,348 million and $5,505 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 (In millions) Projected benefit obligation $ 616 $ 594 Accumulated benefit obligation $ 533 $ 501 Fair value of plan assets $ $ 141 Table of Contents Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows: December 31, Other Postretirement Pension Benefits Benefits 2007 2006 2007 2006 (In millions) Projected benefit obligation $ 646 $ 623 $ 1,610 $ 2,073 Fair value of plan assets $ 28 $ 25 $ 1,183 $ 1,172 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Pension Plan Obligations Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate used to determine the present value of future benefit payments, the expected rate of compensation increases and average expected retirement age. Assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations were as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 Weighted average discount rate 6.65% 6.00% Rate of compensation increase 3.5% 8% 3% 8% Average expected retirement age 63 61 The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate PBO when due. The yield of this hypothetical portfolio, constructed of bonds rated AA or better by Moodys Investors Services (Moodys) resulted in a discount rate of approximately 6.65% and 6.00% for the defined pension plans as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the PBO. This increase (decrease) to the PBO is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 2007 PBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the PBO of $159 million. At the end of 2007, total net actuarial losses were $623 million as compared to $1,123 million in 2006. In 2007, the majority of the reduction in the actuarial losses is due to the increase in the discount rate to 6.65% in 2007 from 6.00% in 2006. These losses will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of 2007, the average remaining service period of active employees was 8.2 years for the pension plans. As the benefits provided under the defined pension plans are calculated as a percentage of future earnings, an assumption of future compensation increases is required to determine the projected benefit obligation. These rates are derived through periodic analysis of historical demographic data conducted by an independent actuarial firm. The last review of such data was conducted using salary information through 2006 and the Company believes that no circumstances have subsequently occurred that would result in a material change to the compensation rate assumptions. Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant of these assumptions include the discount rate, the healthcare cost trend rate and the average expected retirement age. The determination of the discount rate and the average expected retirement age are substantially consistent with the determination described previously for the pension plans. 142 Table of Contents The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 Pre Medicare eligible claims 8.5% down to 5% in 2014 9.0% down to 5% in 2014 Medicare eligible claims 10.5% down to 5% in 2018 11.0% down to 5% in 2018 Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: One Percent One Percent Increase Decrease (In millions) Effect on total of service and interest cost components $ 7 $ (6 ) Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation $ 63 $ (62 ) A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases) the APBO. This increase (decrease) to the APBO is amortized into earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the December 31, 2007 APBO, a 25 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase (decrease) in the APBO of $44 million. At the end of 2007, total net actuarial gains were $112 million as compared to net actuarial losses of $328 million in 2006. The majority of the net actuarial gains are due to the increase in the discount rate, an increased number of retirees opting out of plan benefits and lower than expected medical inflation. These gains will be amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the other postretirement benefit plans. At the end of 2007, the average remaining service period of active employees was 8.3 years for the other postretirement benefit plans. In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in FSP 106 2 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (FSP 106 2), to account for future subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these subsidies during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and related reduction to the components of net periodic other postretirement benefit cost is as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Cumulative reduction in benefit obligation: Beginning of year $ 328 $ 298 $ 230 Service cost 7 6 6 Interest cost 19 19 16 Net actuarial gains (losses) (42 ) 15 46 Prescription drug subsidy (13 ) (10 ) End of year $ 299 $ 328 $ 298 Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Reduction in net periodic benefit cost: Service cost $ 7 $ 6 $ 6 Interest cost 19 19 16 Amortization of net actuarial gains (losses) 5 30 23 Total reduction in net periodic benefit cost $ 31 $ 55 $ 45 The Company received subsidies of $10 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 143 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Net Periodic Benefit Cost Pension Cost Net periodic pension cost is comprised of the following: i) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the projected pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. ii) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the projected pension benefit obligation at the end of each year. iii) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension fund assets in a particular year. iv) Amortization of Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to pension benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods, these costs are amortized to pension expense over the expected service years of the employees. v) Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on pension plan assets or projected pension benefit obligation during a particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the projected pension benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets, they are amortized into pension expense over the expected service years of the employees. The Subsidiaries recognized pension expense of $98 million in 2007 as compared to $180 million in 2006 and $146 million in 2005. The major components of net periodic pension cost described above were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Service cost $ 166 $ 163 $ 142 Interest cost 354 335 318 Expected return on plan assets (507 ) (454 ) (446 ) Amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses 68 125 116 Amortization of prior service cost (credit) 17 11 16 Net periodic benefit cost $ 98 $ 180 $ 146 The increase in expense from 2005 to 2006 was primarily a result of both increases in service and interest cost and amortization of net actuarial losses resulting largely from lower discount rates, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the expected return on plan assets due to a larger plan assets base. The decrease in expense from 2006 to 2007 was primarily the result of an increase in the expected return on plan assets and a decrease in amortization of net actuarial losses resulting from the $350 million contribution made in 2006. The increase in the interest cost resulted from the increase in the discount rate. The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are both $14 million. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic pension cost was 6.00%, 5.82% and 5.83% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The weighted average expected rate of return on pension plan assets used to calculate the net periodic pension cost for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 8.25%, 8.25% and 8.50%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term 144 Table of Contents historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the pension plan in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Based on the December 31, 2007 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of $15 million for the pension plans. Other Postretirement Benefit Cost The net periodic other postretirement benefit cost consists of the following: i) Service Cost Service cost is the increase in the expected postretirement plan benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year. ii) Interest Cost on the Liability Interest cost is the time value adjustment on the expected postretirement benefit obligation at the end of each year. iii) Expected Return on Plan Assets Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated other postretirement fund assets in a particular year. iv) Amortization of Prior Service Cost This cost relates to the increase or decrease to other postretirement benefit cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are realized in the future periods these costs are amortized to other postretirement benefit expense over the expected service years of the employees. v) Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on other postretirement benefit plan assets or expected postretirement plan benefit obligation during a particular year. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets, they are amortized into other postretirement benefit expense over the expected service years of the employees. The Subsidiaries recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $9 million in 2007 as compared to $60 million in 2006 and $77 million in 2005. The major components of net periodic other postretirement benefit cost described above were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Service cost $ 27 $ 35 $ 37 Interest cost 104 117 121 Expected return on plan assets (86 ) (79 ) (79 ) Amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses 23 15 Amortization of prior service cost (credit) (36 ) (36 ) (17 ) Net periodic benefit cost $ 9 $ 60 $ 77 The decrease in benefit cost from 2005 to 2006 was due to changes in plan benefits resulting in decreased service and interest cost and increases in amortization of prior service costs. The continued decrease from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from a change in the Medicare integration methodology for certain retirees. 145 Table of Contents The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for the other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are less than $1 million and $37 million, respectively. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net periodic postretirement cost was 6.00%, 5.82% and 5.98% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets used to calculate the net other postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 7.47%, 7.42% and 7.51%, respectively. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries long term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries policy is to hold this long term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has been an approximation of the estimated return for the other postretirement plans in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Based on the December 31, 2007 asset balances, a 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in net periodic benefit cost of $3 million for the other postretirement plans. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets Pension Plan Assets Substantially all assets of the pension plans are invested within group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $6,440 million and $6,205 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated. Net assets invested in separate accounts are stated at the aggregate fair value of units of participation. Such value reflects accumulated contributions, dividends and realized and unrealized investment gains or losses apportioned to such contributions, less withdrawals, distributions, allocable expenses relating to the purchase, sale and maintenance of the assets and an allocable part of such separate accounts investment expenses. Separate account investments in fixed income and equity securities are generally carried at published market value, or if published market values are not readily available, at estimated market values. Investments in short term fixed income securities are generally reflected as cash equivalents and carried at fair value. Real estate investments are carried at estimated fair value based on appraisals performed by third party real estate appraisal firms, and generally, determined by discounting projected cash flows over periods of time and at interest rates deemed appropriate for each investment. Information on the physical value of the property and the sales prices of comparable properties is used to corroborate fair value estimates. Estimated fair value of hedge fund net assets is generally determined by third party pricing vendors using quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models which are affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market supply and demand, market volatility and liquidity. 146 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the actual and target weighted average allocations of pension plan assets within the separate accounts: December 31, Weighted Average Weighted Average Actual Allocation Target Allocation 2007 2006 2008 Asset Category Equity securities 38% 42% 30% 55% Fixed maturities 44% 42% 30% 65% Other (Real Estate and Alternative investments) 18% 16% 10% 25% Total 100% 100% Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions. Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets Substantially all assets of the other postretirement benefit plans are invested within life insurance and reserve contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were $1,125 million and $1,116 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated. The valuation of separate accounts and the investments within such separate accounts invested in by the other postretirement plans are similar to that described in the preceding section on pension plans. The following table summarizes the actual and target weighted average allocations of other postretirement benefit plan assets within the separate accounts: December 31, Weighted Average Weighted Average Actual Allocation Target Allocation 2007 2006 2008 Asset Category Equity securities 37% 37% 30% 45% Fixed maturities 58% 57% 45% 70% Other (Real Estate and Alternative investments) 5% 6% 0% 10% Total 100% 100% Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions. Funding and Cash Flows of Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Pension Plan Obligations It is the Subsidiaries practice to make contributions to the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding requirements of ERISA, as amended. In accordance with such practice, no contributions were required for the years ended December 31, 2007 or 2006. No contributions will be required for 2008. The Subsidiaries did not make any discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plans during the year ended December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Subsidiaries made discretionary contributions of $350 million. The Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary contributions of $150 million in 2008. 147 Table of Contents Benefit payments due under the non qualified pension plans are funded from the Subsidiaries general assets as they become due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled $50 million and $38 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These benefit payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in 2008. Gross pension benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be as follows: Pension Benefits (In millions) 2008 $ 360 2009 $ 373 2010 $ 383 2011 $ 397 2012 $ 413 2013 2017 $ 2,288 Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations Other postretirement benefits represent a non vested, non guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current regulations do not require specific funding levels for these benefits. While the Subsidiaries have funded such plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries practice to primarily use their general assets, net of participants contributions, to pay claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled $174 million and $152 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of $116 million, net of participants contributions, towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2008. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such payments. Gross other postretirement benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to be as follows: Prescription Gross Drug Subsidies Net (In millions) 2008 $ 116 $ (14 ) $ 102 2009 $ 120 $ (15 ) $ 105 2010 $ 124 $ (16 ) $ 109 2011 $ 129 $ (16 ) $ 113 2012 $ 132 $ (17 ) $ 115 2013 2017 $ 713 $ (100 ) $ 613 Insolvency Assessments Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer 148 Table of Contents engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments are as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 ( In millions ) Other Assets: Premium tax offset for future undiscounted assessments $ 40 $ 45 Premium tax offsets currently available for paid assessments 6 7 Receivable for reimbursement of paid assessments(1) 7 10 $ 53 $ 62 Liability: Insolvency assessments $ 74 $ 90 (1) The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. Assessments levied against the Company were ($1) million, $2 million and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Effects of Inflation The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Income Taxes Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax recognized in a companys financial statements. FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. Previously recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company recognized a $52 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, a $4 million decrease in the interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings of $37 million, net of $11 million of minority interest. Insurance Contracts Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted SOP 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts. SOP 05 1 which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. SOP 05 1 defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) issued related Technical Practice Aids (TPAs) to provide further clarification of SOP 05 1. The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of SOP 05 1. 149 Table of Contents As a result of the adoption of SOP 05 1 and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC amortization on the original contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are immediately expensed. The adoption of SOP 05 1 and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization period relating primarily to the Companys group life and health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset provisions. Prior to the adoption of SOP 05 1, DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable life of the contract. Upon adoption of SOP 05 1, DAC on such contracts is to be amortized over the rate reset period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a cumulative effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income tax of $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to retained earnings. Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans by requiring the: (i) recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans; (ii) recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption; (iii) recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a component of other comprehensive income; (iv) measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the statement of financial position; and (v) disclosure of additional information about the effects on the employers statement of financial position. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total consolidated stockholders equity. As the Companys measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. Stock Compensation Plans As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental application guidance issued by the SEC in Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share Based Payment (SAB 107) using the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of all stock based transactions be measured at fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock based awards as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123) on a prospective basis effective January 1, 2003, and prior to January 1, 2003, accounted for its stock based awards to employees under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. The Company did not modify the substantive terms of any existing awards prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r). Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all stock based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(r). 150 Table of Contents The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations as all stock based awards accounted for under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003. SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock based awards to be recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in accounting policy was not significant to the Companys financial position or results of operations as of the date of adoption. Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock based awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options within operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options be classified and reported as a financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r). Derivative Financial Instruments The Company has adopted guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows: Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments (SFAS 155). SFAS 155 amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging (SFAS 133) and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (SFAS 140). SFAS 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other changes, SFAS 155: (i) clarifies which interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (ii) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation; (iii) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and (iv) amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial interest. The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets (Issue B40). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest rate related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required other than an embedded derivative that results solely from the embedded call options in the underlying financial assets. The adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38, Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument 151 Table of Contents through Exercise of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option (Issue B38) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor (Issue B39). Issue B38 clarifies that the potential settlement of a debtors obligation to a creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39 clarifies that an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor will recover substantially all of its initial net investment. The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Other Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 19 2, Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements (FSP EITF 00 19 2). FSP EITF 00 19 2 specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The adoption of FSP EITF 00 19 2 did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP No. FAS 13 2, Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction (FSP 13 2). FSP 13 2 amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, to require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition, FSP 13 2 requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption is changed. The adoption of FSP 13 2 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156). Among other requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in certain situations. The adoption of SFAS 156 did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108). SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality. SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to initially apply its provisions by either restating prior financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively EITF Issue No. 05 7, Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded in Debt Instruments and Related Issues (EITF 05 7). EITF 05 7 provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification. The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an embedded conversion option upon modification should be included in the analysis of EITF Issue No. 96 19, Debtors Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments, to determine whether a modification or extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value of a conversion option should be recognized 152 Table of Contents upon the modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid in capital. The adoption of EITF 05 7 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 05 8, Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature (EITF 05 8). EITF 05 8 concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for the basis difference should result in an adjustment to additional paid in capital. EITF 05 8 was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue No. 98 5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, and EITF Issue No. 00 27, Application of Issue No. 98 5 to Certain Convertible Instruments. The adoption of EITF 05 8 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 (SFAS 154). SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long lived, non financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04 5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights (EITF 04 5). EITF 04 5 provides a framework for determining whether a general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on substantive rights. EITF 04 5 was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed partnerships and for any pre existing limited partnerships that modified their partnership agreements after that date. For all other limited partnerships, EITF 04 5 required adoption by January 1, 2006 through a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening equity or applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of EITF 04 5 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance in FSP No. FAS 140 2, Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140 (FSP 140 2). FSP 140 2 clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under FSP 140 2, the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event outside the control of the transferor. The adoption of FSP 140 2 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 (SFAS 153). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 05 6, Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements (EITF 05 6). EITF 05 6 provides guidance on determining the amortization period for leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required by EITF 05 6, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 153 Table of Contents In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1). EITF 03 1 provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method should be considered other than temporary and recognized in income. EITF 03 1 also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity securities classified as available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, that are impaired at the balance sheet date but for which an other than temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of other than temporary impairment but has issued FSP Nos. FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1), which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired as set forth in EITF 03 1. As required by FSP 115 1, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis, which had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures. In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (FSP 109 2). The AJCA introduced a one time dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer. FSP 109 2 provides companies additional time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously been recorded. As of January 1, 2006, the repatriation provision of the AJCA no longer applies to the Company. Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Fair Value In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS 157 and applied the provisions of the statement prospectively to assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value. In addition to new disclosure requirements, the adoption of SFAS 157 changes the valuation of certain freestanding derivatives by moving from a mid to bid pricing convention as well as changing the valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts. The change in valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts results from the incorporation of risk margins and the Companys own credit standing in their valuation. While the Company does not expect such changes in valuation to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements at January 1, 2008, the addition of risk margins and the Companys own credit spread in the valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts may result in significant volatility in the Companys consolidated net income. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities the option to measure most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates and to report related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The fair value option is generally applied on an instrument by instrument basis and is generally an irrevocable election. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company has elected the fair value option on fixed maturity securities backing certain pension products sold in Brazil. Previously, these fixed maturity securities were accounted for as available for sale securities in accordance with FAS 115. The Companys insurance joint venture in Japan also elected the fair value option for its single premium deferred annuities and supporting assets. These elections are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys retained earnings or equity as of January 1, 2008. In June 2007, the AICPA issued SOP 07 1, Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies (SOP 07 1) . Upon adoption of SOP 07 1, the Company must also adopt the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FSP FIN 46(r) 7, Application of FASB Interpretation No. 46 to Investment Companies (FSP FIN 46(r) 7), which permanently exempts investment companies from applying the provisions of FIN No. 46(r), Consolidation of 154 Table of Contents Variable Interest Entities An Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, and its December 2003 revision (FIN 46(r)) to investments carried at fair value. SOP 07 1 provides guidance for determining whether an entity falls within the scope of the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies and whether investment company accounting should be retained by a parent company upon consolidation of an investment company subsidiary or by an equity method investor in an investment company. In certain circumstances, SOP 07 1 precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment companies (i.e., fair value accounting), when similar direct investments exist in the consolidated group and are measured on a basis inconsistent with that applied to investment companies. Additionally, SOP 07 1 precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment companies if the reporting entity does not distinguish through documented policies the nature and type of investments to be held in the investment companies from those made in the consolidated group where other accounting guidance is being applied. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. SOP 7 1 1, Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position 07 1, which delays indefinitely the effective date of SOP 07 1. The Company is closely monitoring further FASB developments. In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP No. FIN 39 1, Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 (FSP 39 1). FSP 39 1 amends FIN No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts (FIN 39), to permit a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement that have been offset in accordance with FIN 39. FSP 39 1 also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications. FSP 39 1 applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. FSP 39 1 will be applied retrospectively, unless it is impracticable to do so. Upon adoption of FSP 39 1, the Company is permitted to change its accounting policy to offset or not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. The adoption of FSP 39 1 will not have an impact on the Companys financial statements. Business Combinations In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations A Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141 (SFAS 141(r)) and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS 160) which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Under SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160: All business combinations (whether full, partial, or step acquisitions) result in all assets and liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair value, with limited exceptions. Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition date. The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date. Certain acquired contingent liabilities are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under existing guidance for non acquired contingencies. Changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect income tax expense. Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as minority interests) are valued at fair value at the acquisition date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities. When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests, the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair value and a gain or loss is recognized. Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a change in control are accounted for as equity transactions. When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are recognized. 155 Table of Contents The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to business combinations. Presentation and disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests must be retrospectively applied. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 141(r) on its accounting for future acquisitions and the impact of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial statements. Other In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 140 3, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions (FSP 140 3). FSP 140 3 provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a single transaction or as two separate transactions. FSP 140 3 is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of FSP FAS 140 3 on its consolidated financial statements. In January 2008, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation Issue E23, Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut Method (Issue E23). Issue E23 amends SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have a non zero fair value at inception, as long as the difference between the transaction price (zero) and the fair value (exit price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely attributable to a bid ask spread. In addition, entities would not be precluded from assuming no ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate risk involving an interest bearing asset or liability in situations where the hedged item is not recognized for accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the period between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item is consistent with generally established conventions in the marketplace. Issue E23 is effective for hedging relationships designated on or after January 1, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of Issue E23 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified as final the consensus on EITF Issue No. 07 6, Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement Includes a Buy Sell Clause (EITF 07 6). EITF 07 6 addresses whether the existence of a buy sell arrangement would preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a jointly owned entity. The consensus concludes that the existence of a buy sell clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale treatment under current guidance. EITF 07 6 applies prospectively to new arrangements entered into and assessments on existing transactions performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF 07 6 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2007, the SEC issued SAB No. 109, Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value through Earnings (SAB 109), which amends SAB No. 105, Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments. SAB 109 provides guidance on: (i) incorporating expected net future cash flows when related to the associated servicing of a loan when measuring fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC staffs view that internally developed intangible assets should not be recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative loan commitment or to written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value through earnings. Internally developed intangible assets are not considered a component of the related instruments. SAB 109 is effective for derivative loan commitments issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning after December 15, 2007. The adoption of SAB 109 will not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Investments The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and market valuation risk. 156 Table of Contents The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies; product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit and interest rate risks. Composition of Investment Portfolio Results The following table illustrates the net investment income, net investment gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending assets and ending carrying value for each of the components of the Companys investment portfolio at: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES Yield (1) 6.34 % 6.16 % 6.41 % Investment income (2) $ 12,882 $ 11,977 $ 10,351 Investment gains (losses) $ (622 ) $ (1,120 ) $ (868 ) Ending carrying value (2) $ 243,021 $ 242,687 $ 229,303 MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER LOANS Yield (1) 6.55 % 6.60 % 6.81 % Investment income (3) $ 2,701 $ 2,411 $ 2,236 Investment gains (losses) $ 2 $ (8 ) $ 17 Ending carrying value $ 47,030 $ 42,239 $ 37,190 REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES (4) Yield (1) 10.28 % 11.55 % 10.59 % Investment income $ 607 $ 549 $ 467 Investment gains (losses) $ 57 $ 4,898 $ 2,139 Ending carrying value $ 6,769 $ 4,986 $ 4,665 POLICY LOANS Yield (1) 6.21 % 5.99 % 6.00 % Investment income $ 637 $ 603 $ 572 Ending carrying value $ 10,419 $ 10,228 $ 9,981 EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS Yield (1) 15.59 % 14.90 % 12.83 % Investment income $ 1,567 $ 1,067 $ 798 Investment gains (losses) $ 180 $ 85 $ 159 Ending carrying value $ 12,205 $ 9,875 $ 7,614 CASH AND SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Yield (1) 4.74 % 5.51 % 3.66 % Investment income $ 437 $ 442 $ 362 Investment gains (losses) $ 3 $ (2 ) $ (2 ) Ending carrying value $ 13,016 $ 9,816 $ 7,324 157 Table of Contents December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) OTHER INVESTED ASSETS(5) Yield (1) 8.98 % 9.60 % 8.96 % Investment income $ 887 $ 821 $ 570 Investment gains (losses) $ (627 ) $ (736 ) $ 508 Ending carrying value $ 12,642 $ 10,428 $ 8,078 TOTAL INVESTMENTS Gross investment income yield (1) 6.81 % 6.62 % 6.66 % Investment fees and expenses yield (0.15 )% (0.15 )% (0.15 )% NET INVESTMENT INCOME YIELD 6.66 % 6.47 % 6.51 % Gross investment income $ 19,718 $ 17,870 $ 15,356 Investment fees and expenses (440 ) (404 ) (339 ) NET INVESTMENT INCOME $ 19,278 $ 17,466 $ 15,017 Ending carrying value $ 345,102 $ 330,259 $ 304,155 Gross investment gains $ 1,440 $ 5,754 $ 3,340 Gross investment losses (1,765 ) (2,036 ) (1,578 ) Writedowns (148 ) (136 ) (116 ) Subtotal $ (473 ) $ 3,582 $ 1,646 Derivative and other instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting (534 ) (465 ) 307 INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES) $ (1,007 ) $ 3,117 $ 1,953 Minority interest investment gains (losses) 33 (9 ) Investment gains (losses) tax benefit (provision) 326 (1,114 ) (681 ) INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES), NET OF INCOME TAX $ (648 ) $ 2,003 $ 1,263 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses), and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude collateral associated with the Companys securities lending program. (2) Fixed maturity securities include $779 million, $759 million and $825 million in ending carrying value related to trading securities at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include $50 million, $71 million and $14 million of investment income related to trading securities for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (3) Investment income from mortgage and consumer loans includes prepayment fees. (4) Included in investment income from real estate and real estate joint ventures is $16 million, $94 million and $162 million related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Included in investment gains (losses) from real estate and real estate joint ventures is $13 million, $4.8 billion and $2.1 billion of gains related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (5) Included in investment income from other invested assets are scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging, of $256 million, $290 million and $99 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts are excluded from investment gains (losses). Additionally, excluded from investment gains (losses) is $26 million, $6 million and ($13) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to settlement payments on derivatives used to hedge 158 Table of Contents interest rate and currency risk on policyholders account balances that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Such amounts are included within interest credited to policyholders account balances. Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Fixed maturity securities consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 70% and 73% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, public fixed maturity securities represented $205.4 billion, or 85%, and $209.2 billion, or 86%, of total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed maturity securities represented $36.8 billion, or 15%, and $32.7 billion, or 14%, of total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories called NAIC designations. The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys, or rated BBB or higher by Standard Poors (SP) and Fitch Ratings Insurance Group (Fitch)), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys, or rated BB+ or lower by SP and Fitch). The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Cost or Cost or Amortized Estimated % of Amortized Estimated % of NAIC Rating Rating Agency Designation (1) Cost Fair Value Total Cost Fair Value Total (In millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 172,711 $ 175,651 72.5 % $ 174,430 $ 177,969 73.6 % 2 Baa 48,265 48,914 20.2 45,897 46,881 19.4 3 Ba 10,676 10,738 4.4 9,332 9,738 4.0 4 B 6,632 6,481 2.7 6,814 7,030 2.9 5 Caa and lower 476 445 0.2 283 294 0.1 6 In or near default 1 13 12 16 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,761 $ 242,242 100.0 % $ 236,768 $ 241,928 100.0 % (1) Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moodys, SP and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating is used. The Company held fixed maturity securities at estimated fair values that were below investment grade or not rated by an independent rating agency that totaled $17.7 billion and $17.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These securities had net unrealized gains (losses) of ($108) million and $627 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Non income producing fixed maturity securities were $13 million and $16 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net unrealized gains associated with non income producing fixed maturity securities were $12 million and $4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 159 Table of Contents The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking funds), are as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 Amortized Estimated Amortized Estimated Cost Fair Value Cost Fair Value (In millions) Due in one year or less $ 4,537 $ 4,628 $ 6,923 $ 7,011 Due after one year through five years 42,453 43,167 45,331 45,928 Due after five years through ten years 40,783 41,046 39,571 40,200 Due after ten years 65,496 68,143 63,023 66,728 Subtotal 153,269 156,984 154,848 159,867 Mortgage backed and asset backed securities 85,492 85,258 81,920 82,061 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,761 $ 242,242 $ 236,768 $ 241,928 Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options. Sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available for sale are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Proceeds $ 80,685 $ 89,869 $ 127,709 Gross investment gains $ 831 $ 580 $ 704 Gross investment losses $ (1,183 ) $ (1,533 ) $ (1,391 ) The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturity and equity securities, the percentage that each sector represents by the total fixed maturity securities holdings and by the total equity securities holdings at: December 31, 2007 Cost or Amortized Gross Unrealized Estimated % of Cost Gain Loss Fair Value Total (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 77,875 $ 1,725 $ 2,174 $ 77,426 32.0 % Residential mortgage backed securities 56,267 611 389 56,489 23.3 Foreign corporate securities 37,359 1,740 794 38,305 15.8 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 19,771 1,487 13 21,245 8.8 Commercial mortgage backed securities 17,676 251 199 17,728 7.3 Foreign government securities 13,535 1,924 188 15,271 6.3 Asset backed securities 11,549 41 549 11,041 4.6 State and political subdivision securities 4,394 140 115 4,419 1.8 Other fixed maturity securities 335 13 30 318 0.1 Total fixed maturity securities $ 238,761 $ 7,932 $ 4,451 $ 242,242 100.0 % Common stock $ 2,488 $ 568 $ 108 $ 2,948 48.7 % Non redeemable preferred stock 3,403 61 362 3,102 51.3 Total equity securities (1) $ 5,891 $ 629 $ 470 $ 6,050 100.0 % 160 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 Cost or Amortized Gross Unrealized Estimated % of Cost Gain Loss Fair Value Total (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 74,010 $ 2,047 $ 983 $ 75,074 31.0 % Residential mortgage backed securities 51,602 385 321 51,666 21.4 Foreign corporate securities 33,029 1,687 378 34,338 14.2 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 29,897 984 248 30,633 12.7 Commercial mortgage backed securities 16,467 193 138 16,522 6.8 Foreign government securities 11,406 1,835 34 13,207 5.4 Asset backed securities 13,851 75 53 13,873 5.7 State and political subdivision securities 6,121 230 51 6,300 2.6 Other fixed maturity securities 385 7 77 315 0.2 Total fixed maturity securities $ 236,768 $ 7,443 $ 2,283 $ 241,928 100.0 % Common stock $ 1,798 $ 487 $ 16 $ 2,269 44.5 % Non redeemable preferred stock 2,751 103 29 2,825 55.5 Total equity securities (1) $ 4,549 $ 590 $ 45 $ 5,094 100.0 % (1) Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities include private equity securities with an estimated fair value of $599 million and $238 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company is not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities portfolio. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government corporations and agencies. Additionally, at December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had exposure to fixed maturity securities backed by sub prime mortgages with estimated fair values of $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, and unrealized losses of $219 million and $5 million, respectively. These securities are classified within asset backed securities in the immediately preceding table. At December 31, 2007, 32% have been guaranteed by financial guarantors, of which 55% was guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008. Overall, at December 31, 2007, $6.7 billion of the estimated fair value of the Companys fixed maturity securities were credit enhanced by financial guarantors of which $2.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007, are included within state and political subdivisions, corporate securities and asset backed securities, respectively, and 80% were guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008. Fixed Maturity and Equity Security Impairment. The Company classifies all of its fixed maturity and equity securities as available for sale and marks them to market through other comprehensive income, except for non marketable private equities, which are generally carried at cost and trading securities which are carried at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. All securities with gross unrealized losses at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the Companys process for identifying other than temporary impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities that it deems to be other than temporarily impaired in the period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on managements case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as described in Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Investments, about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. 161 Table of Contents Inherent in managements evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. While all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment, the Companys experience indicates that the first two categories do not present as great a risk of impairment and, often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve. The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $106 million, $82 million and $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Companys credit related impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $86 million, $82 million and $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Companys three largest impairments totaled $19 million, $33 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The circumstances that gave rise to these impairments were financial restructurings, bankruptcy filings or difficult underlying operating environments for the entities concerned. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity securities at a loss that had a fair value of $46.8 billion, $70.3 billion and $93.9 billion, respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at: December 31, 2007 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Loss Number of Securities Less than 20% or Less than 20% or Less than 20% or 20% more 20% more 20% more (In millions, except number of securities) Less than six months $ 49,463 $ 1,943 $ 1,670 $ 555 6,339 644 Six months or greater but less than nine months 17,353 23 844 7 1,461 31 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 9,410 7 568 2 791 1 Twelve months or greater 31,731 50 1,262 13 3,192 32 Total $ 107,957 $ 2,023 $ 4,344 $ 577 December 31, 2006 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Loss Number of Securities Less than 20% or Less than 20% or Less than 20% or 20% more 20% more 20% more (In millions, except number of securities) Less than six months $ 52,222 $ 35 $ 547 $ 12 9,093 81 Six months or greater but less than nine months 2,682 3 42 1 415 2 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 12,049 14 204 4 937 1 Twelve months or greater 47,462 29 1,511 7 4,634 6 Total $ 114,415 $ 81 $ 2,304 $ 24 162 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $4.3 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which represented 4% and 2%, respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. At December 31, 2007, $577 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 29% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $577 million, $555 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. At December 31, 2006, $24 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 30% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $24 million, $12 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. The Company held 30 fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of greater than $10 million. These securities represented 9%, or $459 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. The Company held eight fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 of greater than $10 million. These securities represented 7%, or $169 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $4.9 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of gross unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity securities. These securities are concentrated, calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss, as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 Sector: U.S. corporate securities 44 % 42 % Foreign corporate securities 16 16 Asset backed securities 11 2 Residential mortgage backed securities 8 14 Foreign government securities 4 1 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4 6 U.S. Treasury/agency securities 11 Other 13 8 Total 100 % 100 % Industry: Finance 34 % 10 % Industrial 18 23 Mortgage backed 12 20 Utility 8 11 Government 4 12 Other 24 24 Total 100 % 100 % As described previously, the Company performs a regular evaluation, on a security by security basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities are other than temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which the Company considers in its other than temporary impairment analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost. The Companys intent and ability to hold securities considers broad portfolio management objectives such as asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return focus. In following these portfolio management objectives, changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past 163 Table of Contents reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are based on current conditions or the Companys need to shift the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an impaired security and that security is not expected to recover prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed other than temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an other than temporary impairment loss will be recognized. Based upon the Companys current evaluation of the securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause of the decline being principally attributable to the general rise in interest rates during the holding period, and the Companys current intent and ability to hold the fixed maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has concluded that the aforementioned securities are not other than temporarily impaired. Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities. The table below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed maturity holdings at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Estimated % of Estimated % of Fair Value Total Fair Value Total (In millions) Industrial $ 40,399 34.9 % $ 39,296 35.9 % Foreign (1) 38,305 33.1 34,338 31.5 Finance 22,013 19.0 21,559 19.7 Utility 13,780 11.9 13,038 11.9 Other 1,234 1.1 1,181 1.0 Total $ 115,731 100.0 % $ 109,412 100.0 % (1) Includes U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors, and other foreign investments. The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Companys combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the greatest exposure totaled $7.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, each less than 3% of the Companys total invested assets at such dates. The exposure to the largest single issuer of corporate fixed maturity securities held at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $1.2 billion and $970 million, respectively. The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign currency risk in its corporate fixed maturity portfolio. In the Companys international insurance operations, both its assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. Structured Securities. The following table shows the types of structured securities the Company held at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Estimated % of Estimated % of Fair Value Total Fair Value Total (In millions) Residential mortgage backed securities: Collateralized mortgage obligations $ 37,372 43.8 % $ 33,034 40.3 % Pass through securities 19,117 22.4 18,632 22.7 Total residential mortgage backed securities 56,489 66.2 51,666 63.0 Commercial mortgage backed securities 17,728 20.8 16,522 20.1 Asset backed securities 11,041 13.0 13,873 16.9 Total $ 85,258 100.0 % $ 82,061 100.0 % 164 Table of Contents The majority of the residential mortgage backed securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association. Alternative residential mortgage loans (Alt A) are a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub prime. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $56.2 billion and $51.0 billion, respectively, or 99% for both, of the residential mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, SP or Fitch. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Companys Alt A residential mortgage backed securities exposure was $6.4 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, with an unrealized loss of $143 million and $4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $15.5 billion and $13.7 billion, respectively, or 87% and 83%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, SP or Fitch. The Companys asset backed securities are diversified both by sector and by issuer. Credit card receivables and automobile receivables, accounting for about 36% and 11% of the total asset backed holdings, respectively, constitute the largest exposures in the Companys asset backed securities portfolio. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $6.0 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, or 54% and 57%, respectively, of total asset backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, SP or Fitch. The Companys asset backed securities included in the structured securities table above include exposure to sub prime residential mortgage backed securities. Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit profiles. The Company is not an originator of below prime mortgages. The Companys exposure exists through investment in asset backed securities which are supported by sub prime mortgages. The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable mortgage products, and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of below prime loans have recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates, especially within the 2006 vintage year. These factors have caused a pull back in market liquidity and repricing of risk, which has led to an increase in unrealized losses from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007. Based upon the analysis of the Companys exposure to sub prime mortgages through its investment in asset backed securities, the Company expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the securities. The following table shows the Companys exposure to asset backed securities supported by sub prime mortgage loans by credit quality: December 31, 2007 Below Investment Aaa Aa A Baa Grade Total Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value (In millions) 2003 Prior $ 234 $ 223 $ 132 $ 125 $ 19 $ 17 $ 14 $ 13 $ 4 $ 2 $ 403 $ 380 2004 212 195 446 414 27 24 1 686 633 2005 551 502 278 252 22 18 5 4 856 776 2006 258 235 69 47 327 282 2007 152 142 17 9 169 151 Total $ 1,407 $ 1,297 $ 942 $ 847 $ 68 $ 59 $ 19 $ 17 $ 5 $ 2 $ 2,441 $ 2,222 165 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 Below Investment Aaa Aa A Baa Grade Total Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Cost or Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value (In millions) 2003 Prior $ 319 $ 317 $ 285 $ 285 $ 60 $ 60 $ 33 $ 33 $ $ $ 697 $ 695 2004 307 305 456 458 47 47 15 15 825 825 2005 736 730 305 306 22 22 1,063 1,058 2006 321 322 42 43 57 57 32 32 452 454 Total $ 1,683 $ 1,674 $ 1,088 $ 1,092 $ 186 $ 186 $ 80 $ 80 $ $ $ 3,037 $ 3,032 At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of asset backed securities supported by sub prime mortgage loans as outlined in the tables above. At December 31, 2007, approximately 96% of the portfolio is rated Aaa, Aa or better of which 80% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. At December 31, 2006, approximately 91% of the portfolio was rated Aaa, Aa or better of which 87% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. These older vintages benefit from better underwriting, improved enhancement levels and higher house price appreciation. Asset backed securities also include collateralized debt obligations backed by sub prime mortgages at an aggregate cost of $64 million with a fair value of $48 million at December 31, 2007 and an aggregate cost of $93 million with a fair value of $92 million at December 31, 2006, which are not included in the tables above. Assets on Deposit and Held in Trust and Assets Pledged as Collateral The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory agencies with a fair market value of $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity securities. Company securities held in trust to satisfy collateral requirements had a cost or amortized cost of $7.1 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity securities. Certain of the Companys fixed maturity securities are pledged as collateral for various transactions as described in Composition of Investment Portfolio Results Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Risk. Additionally, the Company has pledged certain of its fixed maturity securities in support of its debt and funding agreements as described in Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other Commitments. Trading Securities The Company has a trading securities portfolio to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income related to fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, trading securities were $779 million and $759 million, respectively, and liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio, which were included in other liabilities, were $107 million and $387 million, respectively. The Company had pledged $407 million and $614 million of its assets, primarily consisting of trading securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on the trading securities and the related short sale agreement liabilities included within net investment income totaled $50 million, $71 million and $14 million, respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such trading securities and short sale agreement 166 Table of Contents liabilities, are changes in fair value of ($4) million, $26 million and less than $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Travelers investment in Tribeca Citigroup Investments Ltd. (Tribeca). Tribeca was a feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced risk adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign equities and equity related securities utilizing such strategies as convertible securities arbitrage. At December 31, 2005, MetLife was the majority owner of the feeder fund and consolidated the fund within its consolidated financial statements. Net investment income related to the trading activities of Tribeca, which included interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and unrealized gains, was $12 million and $6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During the second quarter of 2006, MetLifes ownership interests in Tribeca declined to a position whereby Tribeca is no longer consolidated and, as of June 30, 2006, was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The equity method investment at December 31, 2006 of $82 million was included in other limited partnership interests. Net investment income related to the Companys equity method investment in Tribeca was $9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2006. Mortgage and Consumer Loans The Companys mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and consumer loans comprised 13.6% and 12.7% of the Companys total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances. The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys mortgage and consumer loans by type at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Commercial mortgage loans $ 35,501 75.5 % $ 31,847 75.4 % Agricultural mortgage loans 10,484 22.3 9,213 21.8 Consumer loans 1,045 2.2 1,179 2.8 Total $ 47,030 100.0 % $ 42,239 100.0 % 167 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. The following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Region Pacific $ 8,620 24.3 % $ 7,663 24.0 % South Atlantic 8,021 22.6 6,881 21.6 Middle Atlantic 5,110 14.4 4,858 15.3 International 3,642 10.3 2,832 8.9 East North Central 2,957 8.3 2,879 9.0 West South Central 2,925 8.2 2,631 8.3 New England 1,499 4.2 1,301 4.1 Mountain 1,086 3.1 859 2.7 West North Central 1,046 2.9 799 2.5 East South Central 503 1.4 452 1.4 Other 92 0.3 692 2.2 Total $ 35,501 100.0 % $ 31,847 100.0 % Property Type Office $ 15,471 43.6 % $ 15,083 47.4 % Retail 7,557 21.3 6,552 20.6 Apartments 4,437 12.5 3,772 11.8 Hotel 3,282 9.2 2,120 6.7 Industrial 2,880 8.1 2,850 8.9 Other 1,874 5.3 1,470 4.6 Total $ 35,501 100.0 % $ 31,847 100.0 % The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the Companys commercial mortgage loans at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying % of Carrying % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) Due in one year or less $ 2,963 8.3 % $ 1,772 5.6 % Due after one year through two years 4,247 12.0 3,006 9.4 Due after two years through three years 4,151 11.7 4,173 13.1 Due after three years through four years 3,892 11.0 3,822 12.0 Due after four years through five years 4,589 12.9 4,769 15.0 Due after five years 15,659 44.1 14,305 44.9 Total $ 35,501 100.0 % $ 31,847 100.0 % Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. 168 Table of Contents The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness. The Company records valuation allowances for certain loans that it deems impaired. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans where a property or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future default, as well as for pools of loans with similar high risk characteristics where a property specific or market risk has not been identified. Loan specific valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the mortgage loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the value of the loans collateral, or the loans market value if the loan is being sold. Valuation allowances for pools of loans are established based on property types and loan to value risk factors. The Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains (losses). The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 35,665 100.0 % $ 168 0.5 % $ 31,996 100.0 % $ 153 0.5 % Potentially delinquent 3 3 Delinquent or under foreclosure 1 1 Total $ 35,669 100.0 % $ 168 0.5 % $ 32,000 100.0 % $ 153 0.5 % (1) Amortized cost is the carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for commercial mortgage loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 153 $ 147 $ 149 Additions 69 25 43 Deductions (54 ) (19 ) (45 ) Balance, end of period $ 168 $ 153 $ 147 Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic region and product type. Of the $10.5 billion of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2007, 58%, were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans has been successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans. 169 Table of Contents The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 10,440 99.4 % $ 12 0.1 % $ 9,172 99.4 % $ 11 0.1 % Restructured 2 9 0.1 Potentially delinquent 47 0.4 4 8.5 2 Delinquent or under foreclosure 19 0.2 8 42.1 48 0.5 7 14.6 Total $ 10,508 100.0 % $ 24 0.2 % $ 9,231 100.0 % $ 18 0.2 % (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for agricultural mortgage loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 18 $ 11 $ 7 Additions 8 10 4 Deductions (2 ) (3 ) Balance, end of period $ 24 $ 18 $ 11 Consumer Loans. Consumer loans consist of residential mortgages and auto loans. The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowances for consumer loans distributed by loan classification at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 % of % of Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Amortized % of Valuation Amortized Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost Cost (1) Total Allowance Cost (In millions) Performing $ 1,006 95.7 % $ 5 0.5 % $ 1,155 97.1 % $ 10 0.9 % Potentially delinquent 19 1.8 17 1.4 Delinquent or under foreclosure 26 2.5 1 4.0 18 1.5 1 5.6 Total $ 1,051 100.0 % $ 6 0.6 % $ 1,190 100.0 % $ 11 0.9 % (1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances. The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances for consumer loans for the: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 11 $ 15 $ 1 Additions 17 Deductions (5 ) (4 ) (3 ) Balance, end of period $ 6 $ 11 $ 15 170 Table of Contents Real Estate Holdings The Companys real estate holdings consist of commercial properties located primarily in the United States. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the Companys real estate, real estate joint ventures and real estate held for sale was $6.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, or 2.0% and 1.5%, of total cash and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint ventures is stated at the Companys equity in the real estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation allowances. The following table presents the carrying value of the Companys real estate holdings at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying % of Carrying % of Type Value Total Value Total (In millions) Real estate $ 3,823 56.5 % $ 3,322 66.6 % Real estate joint ventures 2,771 40.9 1,477 29.6 Foreclosed real estate 3 0.1 3 0.1 6,597 97.5 4,802 96.3 Real estate held for sale 172 2.5 184 3.7 Total real estate holdings $ 6,769 100.0 % $ 4,986 100.0 % The Companys carrying value of real estate held for sale of $172 million and $184 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, have been reduced by impairments of $1 million and $17 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure. Real estate holdings were categorized as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 Amount Percent Amount Percent (In millions) Office $ 3,126 46 % $ 2,709 55 % Apartments 1,264 19 739 15 Development joint ventures 743 11 169 3 Retail 574 8 513 10 Real estate investment funds 516 8 401 8 Industrial 283 4 291 6 Land 174 3 71 1 Agriculture 29 32 1 Other 60 1 61 1 Total real estate holdings $ 6,769 100 % $ 4,986 100 % The Companys real estate holdings are primarily located in the United States. At December 31, 2007, 22%, 11%, 10% and 9% of the Companys real estate holdings were located in California, New York, Florida and Texas, respectively. Certain of the Companys investments in real estate joint ventures meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See Composition of Investment Portfolio Results Variable Interest Entities. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company sold its Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties together 171 Table of Contents make up the largest apartment complex in Manhattan, New York totaling over 11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous acres. The properties were owned by the Holding Companys subsidiary, Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company. The sale resulted in a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, and is included in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively, resulting in gains, net of income tax, of $431 million and $762 million, respectively, and is included in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. In connection with the sale of the 200 Park Avenue property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage and is leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205. Leveraged Leases Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested assets, consisted of the following: December 31, 2007 2006 (In millions) Rental receivables, net $ 1,491 $ 1,055 Estimated residual values 1,881 887 Subtotal 3,372 1,942 Unearned income (1,313 ) (694 ) Investment in leveraged leases $ 2,059 $ 1,248 The Companys deferred income tax liability related to leveraged leases was $1.0 billion and $670 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The rental receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic installments. The payment periods range from one to 15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as 30 years. The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Income from investment in leveraged leases (included in net investment income) $ 67 $ 51 $ 54 Less: Income tax expense on leveraged leases (24 ) (18 ) (19 ) Net income from investment in leveraged leases $ 43 $ 33 $ 35 Other Limited Partnership Interests The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $6.2 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included within other limited partnership interests at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of hedge funds. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, net investment income from other limited partnership interests included $89 million, $98 million and $24 million, respectively, related to hedge funds. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor interest, has influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually no influence over the partnerships operating and financial policies. The Companys investments in other limited partnership interests represented 1.8% and 1.4% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Management anticipates that investment income and the related yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit markets during 2007. 172 Table of Contents Some of the Companys investments in other limited partnership interests meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See Composition of Investment Portfolio Results Variable Interest Entities. Other Invested Assets The Companys other invested assets consisted principally of leveraged leases of $2.2 billion and $1.3 billion, funds withheld at interest of $4.5 billion and $4.0 billion, and standalone derivatives with positive fair values and the fair value of embedded derivatives related to funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts of $4.1 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The leveraged leases are recorded net of non recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions, which are diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms and may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio. The Companys other invested assets represented 3.7% and 3.2% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the Company uses derivatives to synthetically create investments as permitted by its insurance subsidiaries Derivatives Use Plans approved by the applicable state insurance departments. The following table presents the notional amount and current market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Current Market Current Market Notional or Fair Value Notional or Fair Value Amount Assets Liabilities Amount Assets Liabilities (In millions) Interest rate swaps $ 62,519 $ 785 $ 768 $ 27,148 $ 639 $ 150 Interest rate floors 48,937 621 37,437 279 Interest rate caps 45,498 50 26,468 125 Financial futures 10,817 89 57 8,432 64 39 Foreign currency swaps 21,399 1,480 1,724 19,627 986 1,174 Foreign currency forwards 4,185 76 16 2,934 31 27 Options 2,043 713 1 587 306 8 Financial forwards 4,600 122 2 3,800 12 40 Credit default swaps 6,850 58 35 6,357 5 21 Synthetic GICs 3,670 3,739 Other 250 43 250 56 Total $ 210,768 $ 4,037 $ 2,603 $ 136,779 $ 2,503 $ 1,459 The above table does not include notional amounts for equity futures, equity variance swaps, and equity options. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 4,658 and 2,749 equity futures, respectively. Fair values of equity futures are included in financial futures in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 695,485 and 225,000 equity variance swaps, respectively. Fair values of equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 77,374,937 and 74,864,483 equity options, respectively. Fair values of equity options are included in options in the preceding table. 173 Table of Contents Credit Risk. The Company may be exposed to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Companys derivative contracts is limited to the fair value at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Companys derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value at the reporting date. The Company manages its credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its derivative instruments. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $833 million and $428 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $678 million and $453 million, respectively, which are held in separate custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company provided collateral of $162 million and $80 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company has exchange traded futures, which require the pledging of collateral. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company pledged collateral of $167 million and $105 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. Variable Interest Entities The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that: (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2007; and (ii) it holds significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated: December 31, 2007 Primary Beneficiary Not Primary Beneficiary Maximum Maximum Total Exposure to Total Exposure to Assets (1) Loss (2) Assets (1) Loss (2) (In millions) Asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations $ 1,167 $ 1,167 $ 1,591 $ 184 Real estate joint ventures (3) 48 26 276 42 Other limited partnership interests (4) 2 1 42,141 2,080 Trust preferred securities (5) 105 105 48,232 3,369 Other investments (6) 1,119 1,119 3,258 260 Total $ 2,441 $ 2,418 $ 95,498 $ 5,935 (1) The assets of the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value. The assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests, trust preferred securities and other investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such assets would have been reflected on the Companys consolidated balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity. 174 Table of Contents (2) The maximum exposure to loss relating to the asset backed securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to the carrying amounts of retained interests. In addition, the Company provides collateral management services for certain of these structures for which it collects a management fee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests, trust preferred securities and other investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners. Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. (3) Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other ventures which engage in the acquisition, development, management and disposal of real estate investments. (4) Other limited partnership interests include partnerships established for the purpose of investing in public and private debt and equity securities. (5) Trust preferred securities are complex, uniquely structured investments which contain features of both equity and debt, may have an extended or no stated maturity, and may be callable at the issuers option after a defined period of time. (6) Other investments include securities that are not trust preferred securities, asset backed securitizations or collateralized debt obligations. Securities Lending The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity and equity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $41.1 billion and $43.3 billion and an estimated fair value of $42.1 billion and $44.1 billion were on loan under the program at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $43.3 billion and $45.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Security collateral of $40 million and $100 million on deposit from customers in connection with the securities lending transactions at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Separate Accounts The Company held $160.2 billion and $144.4 billion in separate accounts, for which the Company does not bear investment risk, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company manages each separate accounts assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The Company establishes separate accounts on a single client and multi client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws. Effective with the adoption of SOP 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts, on January 1, 2004, the Company reported separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if: such separate accounts are legally recognized; assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Companys general account liabilities; investments are directed by the contractholder; and all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of income. The Companys revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not 175 Table of Contents meeting the above criteria are combined on a line by line basis with the Companys general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department, ALM Committees and additional specialists at the business segment level. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risks. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risks (as described below). MetLife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage interest rate risk and the methods and assumptions used are generally consistent with those used by the Company in 2006. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. Market Risk Exposures The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include GICs and annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term treasury rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Companys products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. See Risk Factors Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. Equity Market Prices. The Companys investments in equity securities and equity based fixed maturity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long term guarantees on equity performance. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. The Company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound. The Company mitigates its fixed maturity securities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily exposed to the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, the 176 Table of Contents Argentinean peso, the South Korean won, the Chilean peso, the Taiwanese dollar and the Japanese yen. The Company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. Risk Management Corporate Risk Management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a Board of Directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the Holding Companys Board of Directors and various financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/Liability Management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Financial Management and Oversight Asset/Liability Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific ALM Committees. The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day to day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the ALM Committees. Each of MetLifes business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. Department regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect differences in legal 177 Table of Contents entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. Hedging Activities. To reduce interest rate risk, MetLifes risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. Such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2007 to re price its invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of MetLifes market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non trading invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Companys currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. 178 Table of Contents Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market risk. The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the Companys interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2007. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the Companys equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2007 is set forth in the table below. The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys portfolio at December 31, 2007 was: December 31, 2007 (In millions) Non trading: Interest rate risk $ 5,170 Equity price risk $ 96 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 711 Trading: Interest rate risk $ 18 179 Table of Contents The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys non trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2007 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2007 Assuming a 10% increase Notional Estimated in the yield Amount Fair Value curve (In millions) Assets Fixed maturity securities $ 242,242 $ (5,177 ) Equity securities 6,050 Mortgage and consumer loans 47,599 (594 ) Policy loans 10,419 (235 ) Short term investments 2,648 (15 ) Cash and cash equivalents 10,368 Mortgage loan commitments $ 4,035 (43 ) (50 ) Commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,196 (59 ) Total assets $ (6,071 ) Liabilities Policyholder account balances $ 114,466 $ 840 Short term debt 667 Long term debt 9,532 307 Collateral financing arrangements 5,365 Junior subordinated debt securities 4,338 136 Shares subject to mandatory redemption 178 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 44,136 Total liabilities $ 1,283 Other Derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) Interest rate swaps $ 62,519 $ 17 $ (132 ) Interest rate floors 48,937 621 (47 ) Interest rate caps 45,498 50 33 Financial futures 10,817 32 (41 ) Foreign currency swaps 21,399 (244 ) (97 ) Foreign currency forwards 4,185 60 Options 2,043 712 (93 ) Financial forwards 4,600 120 (5 ) Credit default swaps 6,850 23 (1 ) Synthetic GICs 3,670 Other 250 43 1 Total other $ (382 ) Net change $ (5,170 ) This quantitative measure of risk has decreased by $805 million, or 13%, to $5,170 million at December 31, 2007 from $5,975 million at December 31, 2006. A decrease in the yield curve has decreased our sensitivity by $1.5 billion. This decrease was partially offset by $140 million due to increased asset size, $270 million due to increased derivative usage and $285 million due to duration charges and other. In addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the Company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the Companys liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $12 million. Management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the Company. 180 Table of Contents 
 
