Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For purposes of this discussion, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the Holding Company), its subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance 71 Table of Contents or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. Any or all forward looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. See Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. The following discussion includes references to our performance measures operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources and, consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which our senior managements and many other employees performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders, which is used to evaluate the performance of Banking, Corporate Other, as well as MetLife, is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends. Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses); (ii) less amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses); (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives that are hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment; (iv) plus income from discontinued real estate operations; (v) less net investment income related to contractholder directed unit linked investments; and (vi) plus, for operating joint ventures reported under the equity method of accounting, the aforementioned adjustments, those identified in the definition of operating expenses and changes in the fair value of hedges of operating joint venture liabilities, all net of income tax. Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less changes in policyholder benefits associated with asset value fluctuations related to experience rated contractholder liabilities and certain inflation indexed liabilities; (ii) less costs related to business combinations (since January 1, 2009) and noncontrolling interests; (iii) less amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business acquired (VOBA) and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses); (iv) less interest credited to policyholder account balances (PABs) related to contractholder directed unit linked investments; and (v) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. In addition, operating revenues and operating expenses do not reflect the consolidation of certain securitization entities that are variable interest entities (VIEs) as required under GAAP. We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our businesses. Operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. Reconciliations of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders to GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, are included in Results of Operations. In this discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. Executive Summary MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the United States (U.S.), Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into five segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto Home (collectively, U.S. Business) and International. The assets and liabilities of American Life Insurance Company (American Life) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (DelAm, together with American Life, collectively, ALICO) as of November 30, 2010 and 72 Table of Contents the operating results of ALICO from November 1, 2010 (the Acquisition Date) through November 30, 2010 are included in the International segment. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Banking, Corporate Other, which is comprised of MetLife Bank, National Association (MetLife Bank) and other business activities. For reporting periods beginning in 2011, our non U.S. Business results will be presented within two separate segments: Japan and Other International Regions. On the Acquisition Date, the Holding Company completed the acquisition of American Life from ALICO Holdings LLC (ALICO Holdings), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), and DelAm from AIG, (the Acquisition) for a total purchase price of $16.4 billion. The business acquired in the Acquisition provides consumers and businesses with life insurance, accident and health insurance, retirement and wealth management solutions. This transaction delivers on our global growth strategies, adding significant scale and reach to MetLifes international footprint, furthering our diversification in geographic mix and product offerings, as well as increasing our distribution strength. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As the U.S. and global financial markets continue to recover, we have experienced a significant improvement in net investment income and favorable changes in net investment and net derivative gains (losses). We also continue to experience an increase in market share and sales in some of our businesses, in part, from a flight to quality in the industry. These positive factors were somewhat dampened by the negative impact of general economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment, on the demand for certain of our products. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 2,777 $ (2,319 ) $ 3,479 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (392 ) (2,906 ) (2,098 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (265 ) (4,866 ) 3,910 Less: Adjustments to continuing operations (1) (981 ) 283 (664 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit 401 2,683 (488 ) Operating earnings 4,014 2,487 2,819 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 125 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ 3,892 $ 2,365 $ 2,694 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2010, MetLifes income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses is from the inclusion of ALICO results for one month in 2010 and the impact of financing costs for the Acquisition. The change was predominantly due to a $4.6 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and a $2.5 billion favorable change in net investment gains (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these favorable variances were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to continuing operations of $1.3 billion, before income tax, and $2.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a total favorable variance of $3.6 billion. In addition, operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion in the current year from $2.4 billion in the prior year. The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion was primarily driven by net gains on freestanding derivatives in the current year compared to net losses in the prior year, partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives from gains in the prior year to losses in the current year. The favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year than the current year, equity volatility, which decreased more in the prior year as compared to the current year, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. The favorable change in net investment gains (losses) of 73 Table of Contents $1.6 billion was primarily driven by a decrease in impairments and a decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage loans. These favorable changes in net derivative and net investment gains (losses) were partially offset by an unfavorable change of $514 million in related adjustments. The improvement in the financial markets, which began in the second quarter of 2009 and continued into 2010, was a key driver of the $1.5 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. Such market improvement was most evident in higher net investment income and policy fees, as well as a decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs. These increases were partially offset by an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and deferred sales inducements (DSI) as a result of an increase in average separate account balances and higher current year gross margins in the closed block driven by increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. The 2010 period also includes one month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The favorable impact of a reduction in discretionary spending associated with our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative was more than offset by an increase in other expenses related to our International business. This increase primarily stemmed from the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as current year business growth in the segment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLifes income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The year over year change is predominantly due to an $8.8 billion unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, to losses of $4.9 billion in 2009 from gains of $3.9 billion in 2008. In addition, there was an $808 million unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these variances were favorable changes in adjustments related to continuing operations of $947 million, before income tax, and $3.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a total unfavorable variance of $5.5 billion. In addition, operating earnings available to common shareholders decreased by $329 million to $2.4 billion in 2009 from $2.7 billion in 2008. The unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $8.8 billion was primarily driven by losses on freestanding derivatives, partially offset by gains on embedded derivatives, most of which were associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees, and lower losses on fixed maturity securities. The unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $808 million was primarily driven by an increase in impairments. These unfavorable changes in gains (losses) were partially offset by a favorable change of $947 million in related adjustments. The positive impact of business growth and favorable mortality in several of our businesses was more than offset by a decline in net investment income, resulting in a decrease in operating earnings of $329 million. The decrease in net investment income caused significant declines in the operating earnings of many of our businesses, especially the interest spread businesses. Also contributing to the decline in operating earnings was an increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit costs and a charge related to our closed block of business, a specific group of participating life policies that were segregated in connection with the demutualization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC). The favorable impact of our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative, was more than offset by higher pension and postretirement benefit costs, driving the increase in other expenses. The declines in operating earnings were partially offset by a change in amortization related to DAC, DSI and unearned revenue. Consolidated Company Outlook As a result of the Acquisition, operations outside the U.S. are expected to contribute approximately 30% of the premiums, fees and other revenues and approximately 40% of MetLifes operating earnings in 2011. 74 Table of Contents In 2010, general economic conditions improved and interest rates remained low throughout the year. In 2011, we expect a significant improvement in the operating earnings of the Company, driven primarily by the following: Premiums, fees and other revenues growth in 2011 of approximately 30%, of which 27% is directly attributable to the Acquisition. The remaining 3% increase is driven by: Increases in our non U.S. businesses from continuing organic growth throughout our various geographic regions; Higher fees earned on separate accounts, as the equity markets continue to improve, thereby increasing the value of those separate accounts. In addition, net flows of variable annuities are expected to continue to be strong in 2011, which also increases the account values upon which these fees are earned; Increased sales in the pension closeout business, both in the U.S. and the United Kingdom (U.K.), as we expect the demand for these products to return to a more normal level in 2011. Focus on disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results and anticipate solid results in 2011. Focus on expense management. We continue to focus on expense control throughout the Company, specifically managing the costs associated with the integration of ALICO. We also expect to begin realizing cost synergies later in 2011. Returns on investment portfolio. Although the market environment remains challenging, we expect the returns on our investment portfolio in 2011, with respect to both income and realized gains and losses, will be in line with the results achieved in 2010. More difficult to predict is the impact of potential changes in fair value of freestanding and embedded derivatives as even relatively small movements in market variables, including interest rates, equity levels and volatility, can have a large impact on the fair value of derivatives and net derivative gains (losses). Additionally, changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within certain insurance liabilities may have a material impact on net derivative gains (losses) related to the inclusion of an adjustment for nonperformance risk. Industry Trends Despite improvement in general economic conditions in 2010, we continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the industry. Financial and Economic Environment. Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy, generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The global economy and markets are now recovering from a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This disruption adversely affected the financial services industry, in particular. The U.S. economy entered a recession in late 2007. This recession ended in mid 2009, but the recovery from the recession has been below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In addition, inflation has fallen over the last several years and is expected to remain at low levels for some time. Some economists believe that some level of disinflation and deflation risk remains in the economy. Throughout 2008 and continuing in 2009, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the Federal government took a number of increasingly aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of interest rate reductions that began in the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. Most of these programs have run their course or have been discontinued. The monetary policy by the Federal Reserve Board and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank), which was signed by President Obama in July 2010, are more likely to be relevant to MetLife, Inc. and will significantly change financial regulation in the U.S. See Regulatory Changes. In addition, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision announced in December 2010 increased capital and liquidity requirements (commonly referred 75 Table of Contents to as Basel III) for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed under Dodd Frank and Basel III. It is not certain what effect the enactment of Dodd Frank or Basel III will have on the financial markets, the availability of credit, asset prices and MetLifes operations. We cannot predict whether the funds made available by the U.S. Federal government and its agencies will be enough to continue stabilizing or to further revive the financial markets or, if additional amounts are necessary, whether Congress will be willing to make the necessary appropriations, what the publics sentiment would be towards any such appropriations, or what additional requirements or conditions might be imposed on the use of any such additional funds. The imposition of additional regulation on large financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. This could adversely affect our competitive position. Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, not all such markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon government intervention and liquidity. The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has also led to concerns over capital markets access and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. In response, on May 10, 2010, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund announced a rescue package of up to 750 billion, or approximately $1 trillion, for European nations in the Eurozone. This rescue package is intended to stabilize these economies. The Japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure as a result of the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal growth, a deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending. Recent global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment and net derivative gains (losses), and the demand for and the cost and profitability of certain of our products, including variable annuities and guarantee benefits. See Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Competitive Pressures. The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industrys products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have highlighted financial strength as a significant differentiator from the perspective of customers and certain distributors. In addition, the financial market turbulence and the economic recession have led many companies in our industry to re examine the pricing and features of the products they offer and may lead to consolidation in the life insurance industry. Regulatory Changes. The U.S. life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and services also subject to Federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. The regulation of the financial services industry in the U.S. and internationally has received renewed scrutiny as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets in 2008 and 2009. Significant regulatory reforms have been proposed and these or other reforms could be implemented. See Business U.S. Regulation and Business International Regulation. We cannot predict whether any such reforms will be adopted, the form they will take or their effect upon us. We also cannot predict how the various government responses to the recent financial and economic difficulties will affect the financial services and insurance industries or the standing of particular companies, including us, within those industries. See Business Governmental 76 Table of Contents Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions, Risk Factors Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth and Risk Factors Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability. Until various studies are completed and final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd Frank, the full impact of Dodd Frank on the investments, investment activities and insurance and annuity products of the Company remain unclear. See Risk Factors Various Aspects of Dodd Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth. Under Dodd Frank, as a large, interconnected bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more, or possibly as an otherwise systemically important financial company, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on systemically significant financial companies. Enhanced standards will be applied to Tier 1 and total risk based capital (RBC), liquidity, leverage (unless another, similar standard is appropriate for the Company), resolution plan and credit exposure reporting, concentration limits, and risk management. The so called Volcker Rule provisions of Dodd Frank restrict the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. See Risk Factors Various Aspects of Dodd Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth. Mortgage and Foreclosure Related Exposures. In 2008 MetLife Bank acquired certain assets to enter the forward and reverse residential mortgage origination and servicing business, including rights to service residential mortgage loans. At various times since then, including most recently in the third quarter of 2010, MetLife Bank has acquired additional residential mortgage loan servicing rights. As an originator and servicer of mortgage loans, which are usually sold to an investor shortly after origination, MetLife Bank has obligations to repurchase loans upon demand by the investor due to (i) a determination that material representations made in connection with the sale of the loans (relating, for example, to the underwriting and origination of the loans) are incorrect or (ii) defects in servicing of the loan. MetLife Bank is indemnified by the sellers of the acquired assets, for various periods depending on the transaction and the nature of the claim, for origination and servicing deficiencies that occurred prior to MetLife Banks acquisition, including indemnification for any repurchase claims made from investors who purchased mortgage loans from the sellers. Substantially all mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) that were acquired by MetLife Bank relate to loans sold to Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC). Since the 2008 acquisitions, MetLife Bank has originated and sold mortgages primarily to FNMA, FHLMC and Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) (collectively, the Agency Investors) and, to a limited extent, a small number of private investors. Currently 99% of MetLife Banks $83 billion servicing portfolio is comprised of products sold to Agency Investors. Other than repurchase obligations which are subject to indemnification by sellers of acquired assets as described above, MetLife Banks exposure to repurchase obligations and losses related to origination deficiencies is limited to the approximately $52 billion of loans originated by MetLife Bank (all of which have been originated since August 2008) and to servicing deficiencies after the date of acquisition, and management is satisfied that adequate provision has been made in the Companys consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable repurchase obligations and losses. In light of recent events concerning foreclosure proceedings within the industry, MetLife Bank has undertaken a close review of its procedures. MetLife Bank verifies the accuracy of borrower information included in affidavits filed in foreclosure proceedings. We do not believe that MetLife Bank has material exposure to potential losses arising from challenges to its foreclosure procedures. Like other mortgage servicers, MetLife Bank has been the subject of recent inquiries and investigations from state attorneys general and banking regulators. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) the estimated fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; (ii) investment impairments; 77 Table of Contents (iii) the recognition of income on certain investment entities and the application of the consolidation rules to certain investments; (iv) the estimated fair value of and accounting for freestanding derivatives and the existence and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation; (v) the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; (vi) the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (vii) the liability for future policyholder benefits and the accounting for reinsurance contracts; (viii) accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; (ix) accounting for employee benefit plans; and (x) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters. The application of purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed the most significant of which relate to aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying the Companys accounting policies, we make subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Fair Value The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In many cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at initial recognition. However, in certain cases, the transaction price may not represent fair value. The fair value of a liability is based on the amount that would be paid to transfer a liability to a third party with the same credit standing. It requires that fair value be a market based measurement in which the fair value is determined based on a hypothetical transaction at the measurement date, considered from the perspective of a market participant. When quoted prices are not used to determine fair value of an asset, the Company considers three broad valuation techniques: (i) the market approach, (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach. The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique to use, given what is being measured and the availability of sufficient inputs. The Company prioritizes the inputs to fair valuation techniques and allows for the use of unobservable inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not available. The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value into a three level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input to its valuation. The input levels are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities. Level 2 Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other significant inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entitys own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as 78 Table of Contents instruments for which the determination of estimated fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. Prior to January 1, 2009, the measurement and disclosures of fair value based on exit price excluded certain items such as nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially measured at estimated fair value in a business combination, reporting units measured at estimated fair value in the first step of a goodwill impairment test and indefinite lived intangible assets measured at estimated fair value for impairment assessment. In addition, the Company elected the fair value option (FVO) for certain of its financial instruments to better match measurement of assets and liabilities in the consolidated statements of operations. Estimated Fair Value of Investments The Companys investments in fixed maturity and equity securities, investments in trading and other securities, certain short term investments, most mortgage loans held for sale, and MSRs are reported at their estimated fair value. In determining the estimated fair value of these investments, various methodologies, assumptions and inputs are utilized, as described further below. When available, the estimated fair value of securities is based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of the Companys securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not involve management judgment. When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and managements assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available market information and managements judgments about financial instruments. The significant inputs to the market standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market. When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities. The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held for sale is determined based on observable pricing of residential mortgage loans held for sale with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar loans or securities that are backed by similar loans are not available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage loans held for sale are determined using independent broker quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from third parties. Certain other mortgage loans have also been designated as held for sale which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral estimated using internal models. 79 Table of Contents MSRs, which are recorded in other invested assets, are measured at estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights are retained by the Company. The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various assumptions. Valuation inputs and assumptions include generally observable items such as type and age of loan, loan interest rates, current market interest rates, and certain unobservable inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of which are sensitive to changing markets conditions. The use of different valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as assumptions relating to the collection of expected cash flows, may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Companys ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities. Investment Impairments One of the significant estimates related to available for sale securities is the evaluation of investments for impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and or age of the gross unrealized loss, as described more fully in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments and the Companys evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given by the Company to a decline in estimated fair value and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will recover. Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether the Companys ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in projected cash flows on mortgage backed and asset backed securities (ABS); and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. 80 Table of Contents The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for the credit loss component of Other Than Temporary Impairment (OTTI) in the period in which the determination is made. When an OTTI of a fixed maturity security has occurred, the amount of the OTTI recognized in earnings depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost. If the fixed maturity security meets either of these two criteria, the OTTI recognized in earnings is equal to the entire difference between the securitys amortized cost and its estimated fair value at the impairment measurement date. For OTTI of fixed maturity securities that do not meet either of these two criteria, the net amount recognized in earnings is equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected from this security (credit loss). If the estimated fair value is less than the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected, this portion of OTTI related to other than credit factors (noncredit loss) is recorded as other comprehensive income (loss). For equity securities, the carrying value of the equity security is impaired to its estimated fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. The Company does not make any adjustments for subsequent recoveries in value. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Recognition of Income on Certain Investment Entities The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. loan backed securities, including mortgage backed and ABS, certain structured investment transactions, trading and other securities) is dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned. Application of the Consolidation Rules to Certain Investments The Company has invested in certain structured transactions that are VIEs. These structured transactions include reinsurance trusts, asset backed securitizations, hybrid securities, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests and limited liability companies. The Company is required to consolidate those VIEs for which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The accounting rules for the determination of when an entity is a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE are complex. The determination of the VIEs primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the contractual and implied rights and obligations associated with each partys relationship with or involvement in the entity, an estimate of the entitys expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. The Company generally uses a qualitative approach to determine whether it is the primary beneficiary. For most VIEs, the entity that has both the ability to direct the most significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs that are investment companies or apply measurement principles consistent with those utilized by investment companies, the primary beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of a VIEs expected losses, receive a majority of a VIEs expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its involvement with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts to manage various risks relating to its ongoing business operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market. 81 Table of Contents The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices for exchange traded derivatives and interest forwards to sell certain to be announced securities or through the use of pricing models for over the counter (OTC) derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to be consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. Embedded Derivatives The Company issues certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits. These include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), and certain guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB). GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB are embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins for non capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for the Holding Companys debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to the Holding Company. Risk margins are established to capture the non capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment. The accounting for embedded derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. If interpretations change, there is a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income. These guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the Companys nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non capital market inputs may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. 82 Table of Contents The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB and GMAB described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company. As part of its regular review of critical accounting estimates, the Company periodically assesses inputs for estimating nonperformance risk in fair value measurements. During the second quarter of 2010, the Company completed a study that aggregated and evaluated data, including historical recovery rates of insurance companies as well as policyholder behavior observed over the past two years as the recent financial crisis evolved. As a result, at the end of the second quarter of 2010, the Company refined the manner in which its insurance subsidiaries incorporate expected recovery rates into the nonperformance risk adjustment for purposes of estimating the fair value of investment type contracts and embedded derivatives within insurance contracts. The refinement impacted the Companys income from continuing operations, net of income tax, with no effect on operating earnings. As described above, the valuation of variable annuity guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an adjustment for the Companys nonperformance risk, which is subject to variability. The table below illustrates the impact that a range of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on the Companys consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax. Changes in the carrying values of PABs would be reported in net investment gains (losses) and changes in the carrying value of DAC and VOBA would be reported in other expenses. However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, that can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements under the credit spread variance scenarios presented below. In determining the ranges, the Company has considered current market conditions as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme market conditions experienced during the 2008 and 2009 economic crisis as the Company does not consider those to be reasonably likely events in the near future. Carrying Value At December 31, 2010 DAC and PABs VOBA (In millions) 100% increase in the Companys credit spread $ 1,551 $ 79 As reported $ 2,357 $ 110 50% decrease in the Companys credit spread $ 2,852 $ 130 The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is determined using market standard swap valuation models and observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the Companys nonperformance risk that takes into consideration publicly available information relating to the Companys debt, as well as its claims paying ability. Changes in equity and bond indices, interest rates and the Companys credit standing may result in significant fluctuations in estimated the fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and relate to the production of new business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment type contracts in force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the consolidated financial statements for reporting purposes. 83 Table of Contents Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the Companys accounting policy relating to DAC and VOBA amortization for various types of contracts. Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in force account balances on such contracts each reporting period which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Companys practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long term expectation changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of approximately $128 million with an offset to the Companys unearned revenue liability of approximately $19 million for this factor. The Company also periodically reviews other long term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. We annually update assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. The Companys most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA were due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on contracts included within the Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements provides a rollforward of DAC and VOBA for the Company for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as a breakdown of DAC and VOBA by segment and reporting unit at December 31, 2010 and 2009. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for the Company was $27.3 billion, $19.3 billion and $20.1 million, respectively. The DAC and VOBA balance increased significantly as a result of the Acquisition, which contributed $8.9 billion to the balance at December 31, 2010. Approximately 55%, of the Companys DAC and VOBA was associated with the Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for these segments was $14.9 billion, $16.1 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and the annuities contracts within the Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments is significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA within the Companys U.S. Business of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Investment return $ 3 $ 141 $ 70 Separate account balances 21 (32 ) (708 ) Net investment gain (loss) (124 ) 712 (521 ) Expense 89 60 61 In force/Persistency 17 (87 ) (159 ) Policyholder dividends and other (192 ) 174 (30 ) Total $ (186 ) $ 968 $ (1,287 ) 84 Table of Contents The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2010: Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $197 million, excluding the impact from the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $88 million. The narrowing of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $96 million. In addition, higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $18 million. The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC amortization by $129 million, was primarily attributable to current period investment activities. Included in policyholder dividends and other was an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $42 million as a result of changes to long term assumptions. In addition, amortization increased by $39 million as a result of favorable gross margin variances. The remainder of the increase was due to various immaterial items. The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2009: Actual gross profits decreased as a result of increased investment losses from the portfolios associated with the hedging of guaranteed insurance obligations on variable annuities, resulting in a decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization of $141 million. Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $995 million, excluding the impact from the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $636 million. The narrowing of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $607 million. This was partially offset by lower risk margins which decreased the guarantee liability valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $20 million. The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which decreased DAC amortization by $484 million, was primarily attributable to current period investment activities. Included in policyholder dividends and other was a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $90 million as a result of changes to long term assumptions. The remainder of the decrease was due to various immaterial items. The following represents significant items contributing to the changes in DAC and VOBA amortization in 2008: The decrease in equity markets during the year significantly lowered separate account balances which led to a significant reduction in expected future gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $708 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. 85 Table of Contents Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities resulting in a reduction of DAC and VOBA amortization of $1,047 million. This decrease in actual gross profits was mitigated by freestanding derivative gains associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations which resulted in an increase in actual gross profits and an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $625 million. The widening of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment decreased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $739 million. This was partially offset by higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $100 million. Reductions in both actual and expected cumulative earnings of the closed block resulting from recent experience in the closed block combined with changes in expected dividend scales resulted in an increase in closed block DAC amortization of $195 million, $175 million of which was related to net investment gains (losses). The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses) on DAC amortization of $129 million was attributable to numerous immaterial items. Increases in DAC and VOBA amortization in 2008 resulting from changes in assumptions related to in force/persistency of $159 million were driven by higher than anticipated mortality and lower than anticipated premium persistency during 2008. The Companys DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been recognized. The increase in unrealized investment gains decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $1.4 billion in 2010. The decrease in unrealized investment losses decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $2.8 billion in 2009, whereas the increase in unrealized investment losses increased the DAC and VOBA balance by $3.4 billion in 2008. Notes 3 and 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment losses. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement products and individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to the equity market levels. 86 Table of Contents We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only managements reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result in future impairments of goodwill. Liability for Future Policy Benefits The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities, certain accident and health, and non medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Other policy related balances include claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on life and non medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life policies are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the Standard Poors Ratings Services (SP) 500 Index. The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing of these policies and guarantees and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. 87 Table of Contents Reinsurance The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Income Taxes Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The Companys accounting for income taxes represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company anticipates making an election under the Internal Revenue Code Section 338 as it relates to the Acquisition. As such, the tax basis in the acquired assets and liabilities is adjusted as of the Acquisition Date resulting in a change to the related deferred income taxes. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in managements determination consider the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following: (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years; and (iv) tax planning strategies. The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur. 88 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company sponsor and or administer pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with our external consulting actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. Litigation Contingencies The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Economic Capital Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in our businesses. As a part of the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of our businesses. Acquisitions and Dispositions See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009 We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in several of our businesses, which, together with improved overall market conditions compared to conditions a year ago, positively impacted our results most significantly through increased net cash flows, improved yields on our investment portfolio and increased policy fee income. Sales of our domestic annuity products were up 14%, driven by an increase in variable annuity sales compared with the prior year. We benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products. Market penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the U.K.; however, although improving, our domestic 89 Table of Contents pension closeout business has been adversely impacted by a combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. While we experienced growth in our group life business, sales of non medical health and individual life products declined. Sales of new homeowner and auto policies increased 11% and 4%, respectively, as the housing and automobile markets have improved. We experienced a 30% increase in sales of retirement and savings products abroad. During 2010, mortgage refinancing activity continued to return to more moderate levels compared to the unusually high levels experienced in 2009. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 27,394 $ 26,460 $ 934 3.5 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 6,037 5,203 834 16.0 % Net investment income 17,615 14,837 2,778 18.7 % Other revenues 2,328 2,329 (1 ) % Net investment gains (losses) (392 ) (2,906 ) 2,514 86.5 % Net derivative gains (losses) (265 ) (4,866 ) 4,601 94.6 % Total revenues 52,717 41,057 11,660 28.4 % Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 31,031 29,986 1,045 3.5 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 4,925 4,849 76 1.6 % Interest credited to bank deposits 137 163 (26 ) (16.0 )% Capitalization of DAC (3,343 ) (3,019 ) (324 ) (10.7 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 2,801 1,307 1,494 114.3 % Interest expense on debt 1,550 1,044 506 48.5 % Other expenses 11,658 11,061 597 5.4 % Total expenses 48,759 45,391 3,368 7.4 % Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax 3,958 (4,334 ) 8,292 191.3 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 1,181 (2,015 ) 3,196 158.6 % Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax 2,777 (2,319 ) 5,096 219.7 % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 9 41 (32 ) (78.0 )% Net income (loss) 2,786 (2,278 ) 5,064 222.3 % Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) (32 ) 28 87.5 % Net income (loss) attributable to MetLife, Inc. 2,790 (2,246 ) 5,036 224.2 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders $ 2,668 $ (2,368 ) $ 5,036 212.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2010, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses was from the inclusion of one month of ALICO results in 2010. The change was predominantly due to a $3.0 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) and a $1.6 billion favorable change in net investment gains (losses). Offsetting these favorable variances totaling $4.6 billion were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses) of $514 million, net of income tax, principally associated with DAC and 90 Table of Contents VOBA amortization, resulting in a total favorable variance related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses), net of related adjustments and income tax, of $4.1 billion. We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined Asset/Liability Management (ALM) principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net of income tax, risk adjusted net investment income and risk adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to, equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint ventures, provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels. Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include current and expected market conditions and expectations for changes within our specific mix of products and business segments. In addition, the general account investment portfolio includes within trading and other securities, contractholder directed investments supporting unit linked variable annuity type liabilities, which do not qualify for reporting and presentation as separate account assets. The returns on these investments, which can vary significantly period to period include changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances through interest credited to policyholder account balances. The composition of the investment portfolio of each business segment is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly, certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in longer duration, higher yielding fixed maturity securities, or certain sub sectors of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios. Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are generated and can change significantly from period to period, due to changes in external influences, including movements in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity markets, counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation, and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing, that can generate gains and losses. As an investor in the fixed income, equity security, mortgage loan and certain other invested asset classes, we are exposed to the above stated risks, which can lead to both impairments and credit related losses. Freestanding derivatives are used to hedge certain investments and liabilities. For those hedges not designated as accounting hedges, changes in these market risks can lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged even though these are effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue liabilities and purchase assets that contain embedded derivatives whose changes in estimated fair value are sensitive to changes in market risks and are also recognized in net derivative gains (losses). The favorable variance in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion, from losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 to losses of $172 million in 2010 was primarily driven by a favorable change in freestanding derivatives of $4.4 billion, comprised of a $4.5 billion favorable change from losses in the prior year of $4.3 billion to gains in the current year of $203 million and $123 million in ALICO freestanding derivative losses. This favorable variance was partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees of $1.4 billion from gains in the prior year of $1.1 billion to losses in the current year of $257 million, net of $5 million in ALICO embedded derivative gains. We use freestanding interest rate, currency, credit and equity derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded derivatives, within certain of our variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. The $4.5 billion favorable variance in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year than the current year, a greater decrease in equity volatility in the prior year as 91 Table of Contents compared to the current year, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. Falling long term and mid term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long term and mid term interest rates in the prior year had a positive impact of $2.6 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $931 million of which is attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities, which are accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, stronger equity market recovery and lower equity market volatility in the prior year as compared to the current year had a positive impact of $1.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we use to hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. U.S. dollar strengthening had a positive impact of $554 million on certain of our foreign currency derivatives, which are used to hedge foreign denominated asset and liability exposures. Finally, widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector had a positive impact of $221 million on our purchased protection credit derivatives. Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives also include an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the related liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The $1.4 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, equity volatility and equity market movements. Falling long term and mid term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long term and mid term interest rates in the prior year had a negative impact of $1.4 billion. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $468 million. Equity volatility decreased more in the prior year than in the current year causing a negative impact of $284 million, and a stronger recovery in the equity markets in the prior year than in the current year had a negative impact of $228 million. The unfavorable impact from these hedged risks was partially offset by a favorable change related to the adjustment for nonperformance risk of $1.2 billion, from losses of $1.3 billion in 2009 to losses of $62 million in 2010. This $62 million loss was net of a $621 million loss related to a refinement in estimating the spreads used in the adjustment for nonperformance risk made in the second quarter of 2010. Gains on the freestanding derivatives that hedged these embedded derivative risks largely offset the change in liabilities attributable to market factors, excluding the adjustment for nonperformance risk, which does not have an economic impact on the Company. Improved or stabilizing market conditions across several invested asset classes and sectors as compared to the prior year resulted in decreases in impairments and in net realized losses from sales and disposals of investments in most components of our investment portfolio. These decreases, coupled with a decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage loans due to improved market conditions, resulted in a $1.6 billion improvement in net investment gains (losses). Income from continuing operations, net of income tax for 2010 includes $138 million of expenses related to the acquisition and integration of ALICO. These expenses, which primarily consisted of investment banking and legal fees, are recorded in Banking, Corporate Other and are not a component of operating earnings. As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, we use operating earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior managements and many other employees performance is evaluated for the purpose of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased by $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion in 2010 from $2.4 billion in 2009. 92 Table of Contents Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating earnings available to common shareholders Year Ended December 31, 2010 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 1,371 $ 813 $ 1,002 $ 295 $ (131 ) $ (573 ) $ 2,777 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (273 ) (530 ) (392 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 266 (193 ) (1 ) (491 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Adjustments to continuing operations (1) (237 ) (282 ) 143 (427 ) (178 ) (981 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (31 ) (49 ) (44 ) 3 268 254 401 Operating earnings $ 1,321 $ 739 $ 920 $ 300 $ 792 (58 ) 4,014 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (180 ) $ 3,892 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ (418 ) $ (628 ) $ (581 ) $ 321 $ (280 ) $ (733 ) $ (2,319 ) Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (105 ) (269 ) (2,906 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,426 ) (421 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Adjustments to continuing operations (1) (139 ) 519 125 (206 ) (16 ) 283 Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit 837 504 621 1 366 354 2,683 Operating earnings $ 1,142 $ 308 $ 580 $ 322 $ 463 (328 ) 2,487 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (450 ) $ 2,365 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 93 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses Year Ended December 31, 2010 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 26,451 $ 6,881 $ 7,540 $ 3,146 $ 6,794 $ 1,905 $ 52,717 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (273 ) (530 ) (392 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 266 (193 ) (1 ) (491 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 1 1 Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (144 ) (248 ) 193 44 449 294 Total operating revenues $ 26,276 $ 6,724 $ 7,364 $ 3,154 $ 7,514 $ 2,047 $ 53,079 Total expenses $ 24,338 $ 5,622 $ 5,999 $ 2,781 $ 6,987 $ 3,032 $ 48,759 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 90 35 (7 ) 118 Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) 4 (1 ) 50 478 627 1,158 Total operating expenses $ 24,244 $ 5,588 $ 5,949 $ 2,781 $ 6,516 $ 2,405 $ 47,483 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 23,483 $ 3,725 $ 5,486 $ 3,113 $ 4,383 $ 867 $ 41,057 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (105 ) (269 ) (2,906 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,426 ) (421 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) (27 ) (27 ) Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (74 ) (219 ) 188 (169 ) 22 (252 ) Total operating revenues $ 25,842 $ 5,903 $ 7,205 $ 3,115 $ 5,455 $ 1,588 $ 49,108 Total expenses $ 24,165 $ 4,690 $ 6,400 $ 2,697 $ 4,868 $ 2,571 $ 45,391 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 39 (739 ) (700 ) Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) (1 ) 1 63 37 38 138 Total operating expenses $ 24,127 $ 5,428 $ 6,337 $ 2,697 $ 4,831 $ 2,533 $ 45,953 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 94 Table of Contents Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax and are on a constant currency basis. The constant currency basis amounts for both periods are calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates of 2010. The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver of the increase in operating earnings as evidenced by higher net investment income and an increase in average separate account balances, which resulted in an increase in policy fee income. Interest rate and equity market changes resulted in a decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs. Partially offsetting this improvement was an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and DSI. The increase in operating earnings also includes the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2010. This improved reported operating earnings by $38 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, operating earnings increased $1.5 billion from the prior period. Furthermore, the 2010 period also includes one month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The current period also benefited from the dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of 2009. The improvement in 2010 results compared to 2009 was partially offset by a decline in residential mortgage loan production and the prior period impact of pesification in Argentina. In addition to a $133 million increase due to the inclusion of ALICO results, net investment income increased by $792 million from higher yields and $515 million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity markets year over year on real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, and by the effects of continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. Growth in our investment portfolio was primarily due to positive net cash flows from growth in our domestic individual and group life businesses, as well as certain international businesses; increased bank deposits, higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative counterparties, as well as the temporary investment of proceeds from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. With the exception of the cash flows from such securities issuances, which were temporarily invested in lower yielding liquid investments, we continued to reposition the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments. Since many of our products are interest spread based, higher net investment income is typically offset by higher interest credited expense. However, interest credited expense, including amounts reflected in policyholder benefits and claims, decreased $147 million, primarily in our domestic funding agreement business, which experienced lower average crediting rates combined with lower average account balances. Our fixed annuities business also experienced lower crediting rates. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily the London Inter Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), which were lower than the prior year. The impact from the growth in our structured settlement, long term care and disability businesses partially offset those decreases in interest credited expense. A significant increase in average separate account balances is largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $471 million, most notably in our Retirement Products segment. The improvement in fees is partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization of $377 million. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate accounts. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. A portion of the increase in amortization was due to the impact of higher current year gross margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization for our Insurance Products segment, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. There was a $59 million decrease in variable annuity guaranteed benefit costs. Costs associated with our annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, hedge programs and reinsurance programs are impacted by equity markets and interest rate levels to varying degrees. While 2010 and 2009 both experienced equity market improvements, the improvement in 2009 was greater. Interest rate levels declined in the current year and increased in the prior year. Annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, net of a decrease in paid claims, increased benefits by $93 million primarily from our annual unlocking of assumptions related to these liabilities. The hedge and reinsurance programs which are used to mitigate the risk associated with these guarantees produced losses in both periods, but the losses in the 95 Table of Contents prior period were more significant due to the 2009 equity market recovery. The change in hedge and reinsurance program costs decreased by $152 million. These hedge and reinsurance programs, which are a key part of our risk management strategy, performed as anticipated. The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in the current period. Claims experience varied amongst our businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $153 million to operating earnings compared to the prior year. We had unfavorable claims experience in our Auto Home segment, primarily due to increased catastrophes. Our Insurance Products segment experienced mixed claims experience with a net unfavorable impact. We experienced less favorable mortality experience in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment despite favorable experience in our structured settlements business. A $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage loan production resulted in a $131 million decrease in operating earnings, $32 million of which is reflected in net investment income from lower investment levels with the remainder largely attributable to a reduction in fee income. The increase in the serviced residential mortgage loan portfolio improved operating earnings by $41 million, including $23 million of costs associated with investment and growth in our banking business as discussed below. Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a result of the full year impact of debt issuances in 2009 and of senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements. In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of a $95 million benefit recorded in the prior period related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as an $83 million increase related to the investment and growth in our international and banking businesses. In addition, the current period includes a $14 million increase in charitable contributions and $13 million of costs associated with the integration of ALICO. Offsetting these increases was a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting, rent and postemployment related costs. In addition, we experienced a $47 million decline in market driven expenses, primarily pension and post retirement benefit costs. Also contributing to the decrease was a $35 million reduction in real estate related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1,181 million, or 30% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with income tax benefit of $2,015 million, or 47% of the loss from continuing operations before benefit for income tax, for the comparable 2009 period. The Companys 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax differences. The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the Health Care Act). The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings of $86 million for our International segment, resulting from a $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 due to a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit of $52 million in the current year from additional permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. In addition, in 2009 we had a larger benefit of $71 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. 96 Table of Contents Insurance Products Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 17,200 $ 17,168 $ 32 0.2 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,247 2,281 (34 ) (1.5 )% Net investment income 6,068 5,614 454 8.1 % Other revenues 761 779 (18 ) (2.3 )% Total operating revenues 26,276 25,842 434 1.7 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 19,075 19,111 (36 ) (0.2 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 963 952 11 1.2 % Capitalization of DAC (841 ) (873 ) 32 3.7 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 966 725 241 33.2 % Interest expense on debt 1 6 (5 ) (83.3 )% Other expenses 4,080 4,206 (126 ) (3.0 )% Total operating expenses 24,244 24,127 117 0.5 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 711 573 138 24.1 % Operating earnings $ 1,321 $ 1,142 $ 179 15.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improvement in the global financial markets had a positive impact on net investment income, which contributed to the increase in Insurance Products operating earnings. In addition, we experienced overall modest revenue growth in several of our businesses despite this challenging environment. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across most of our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. Growth in our group life business was dampened by a decline in our non medical health and individual life businesses. However, our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and pricing actions, partially offset by lower persistency and the loss of existing subscribers, driven by high unemployment. This business also experienced more stable utilization and benefits costs in the current year. The revenue growth from our dental business was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business, mainly due to net customer cancellations, changes in benefit levels and lower covered lives. Our long term care revenues were flat year over year, concurrent with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010. In our individual life business, the change in revenues was suppressed by the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the positive resolution of certain legal matters. Excluding this impact, the traditional life business experienced 8% growth in our open block of business. The expected run off of our closed block more than offset this growth. The significant components of the $179 million increase in operating earnings were an improvement in net investment income and the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain policyholders, coupled with lower expenses. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in DAC amortization, as well as net unfavorable claims experience across several of our businesses. Higher net investment income of $295 million was due to a $202 million increase from growth in average invested assets and a $93 million increase from higher yields. Growth in the investment portfolio was attributed to an increase in net cash flows from the majority of our businesses. The increase in yields was largely due to the positive effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, structured finance securities (comprised of mortgage and asset backed securities) and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other 97 Table of Contents limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets which provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a $36 million increase in interest credited on long duration contracts, which is reflected in the change in policyholder benefits and dividends, primarily due to growth in future policyholder benefits in our long term care and disability businesses. Other expenses decreased by $82 million, largely due to a decrease of $40 million from the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, such as pension and post retirement benefit costs. In addition, a decrease in information technology expenses of $29 million contributed to the improvement in operating earnings. A decrease in variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, further reduced expenses by $11 million, a portion of which is offset by DAC capitalization. The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in the current year. Claims experience varied amongst Insurance Products businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $42 million to operating earnings. We experienced excellent mortality results in our group life business due to a decrease in severity, as well as favorable reserve refinements in the current year. In addition, an improvement in our long term care results was driven by favorable claim experience mainly due to higher terminations and less claimants in the current year, coupled with the impact of unfavorable reserve refinements in the prior year. Our improved dental results were driven by higher enrollment and pricing actions, as well as improved claim experience in the current year. The impact of this positive experience was surpassed by solid, but less favorable mortality, in our individual life business combined with higher incidence and severity of group disability claims in the current year, and the impact of a gain from the recapture of a reinsurance arrangement in the prior year. Higher DAC amortization of $157 million was primarily driven by the impact of higher gross margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. In addition, the net impact of various model refinements in both the prior and current year increased DAC amortization. Certain events reduced operating earnings, including the impact of a benefit being recorded in the prior year of $17 million related to the positive resolution of certain legal matters and an increase in current income tax expense of $27 million, resulting from an increase in our effective tax rate. 98 Table of Contents Retirement Products Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 875 $ 920 $ (45 ) (4.9 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,234 1,712 522 30.5 % Net investment income 3,395 3,098 297 9.6 % Other revenues 220 173 47 27.2 % Total operating revenues 6,724 5,903 821 13.9 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 1,879 1,950 (71 ) (3.6 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,612 1,688 (76 ) (4.5 )% Capitalization of DAC (1,067 ) (1,067 ) % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 724 424 300 70.8 % Interest expense on debt 3 3 Other expenses 2,437 2,433 4 0.2 % Total operating expenses 5,588 5,428 160 2.9 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 397 167 230 137.7 % Operating earnings $ 739 $ 308 $ 431 139.9 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During 2010, overall annuity sales decreased 5% compared to 2009 as declines in fixed annuity sales were partially offset by increased sales of our variable annuity products. The financial market turmoil in early 2009 resulted in extraordinarily high sales of fixed annuity products in 2009. The high sales level was not expected to continue after the financial markets returned to more stable levels. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the expansion of alternative distribution channels and fewer competitors in the market place. Surrender rates for both our variable and fixed annuities remained low during the current period as we believe our customers continue to value our products compared to other alternatives in the marketplace. Interest rate and equity market changes were the primary driver of the $431 million increase in operating earnings, with the largest impact resulting from a $370 million increase in policy fees and other revenues, a $193 million increase in net investment income, and a $59 million decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs, offset by a $204 million increase in DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and a $39 million increase in commission expense resulting from growth in annuity contract balances. A significant increase in average separate account balances was largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $370 million, partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate account. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. Financial market improvements also resulted in the increase in net investment income of $193 million as a $291 million increase from higher yields was partially offset by a $98 million decrease from a decline in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of the continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our investment portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding assets, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. Yields were also positively impacted by the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. Despite positive net cash flows, a reduction in the general account investment portfolio was due to the impact of 99 Table of Contents more customers gaining confidence in the equity markets and, as a result, electing to transfer funds into our separate account investment options as market conditions improved. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets, in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. There was a $59 million decrease in variable annuity guaranteed benefit costs in 2010 compared to 2009. Costs associated with our annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, hedge programs and reinsurance programs are impacted by equity markets and interest rate levels to varying degrees. While the equity market improved in both 2010 and 2009, the improvement in 2009 was greater. Interest rate levels declined in the current year and increased in the prior year. Annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, net of a decrease in paid claims, increased benefits by $93 million primarily from our annual unlocking of assumptions related to these liabilities. The hedge and reinsurance programs which are used to mitigate the risk associated with these guarantees produced losses in both periods, but the losses in the prior period were more significant due to the 2009 equity market recovery. The costs related to our hedge and reinsurance programs decreased by $152 million in 2010 compared to 2009. These hedge and reinsurance programs, which are a key part of our risk management strategy, performed as anticipated. Interest credited expense decreased $49 million driven by lower average crediting rates on fixed annuities and higher amortization of excess interest reserve due to one large case surrender in 2010, partially offset by growth in our fixed annuity policyholder account balances. Corporate Benefit Funding Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 1,938 $ 2,264 $ (326 ) (14.4 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 226 176 50 28.4 % Net investment income 4,954 4,527 427 9.4 % Other revenues 246 238 8 3.4 % Total operating revenues 7,364 7,205 159 2.2 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 4,041 4,245 (204 ) (4.8 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,445 1,632 (187 ) (11.5 )% Capitalization of DAC (19 ) (14 ) (5 ) (35.7 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 16 15 1 6.7 % Interest expense on debt 6 3 3 100.0 % Other expenses 460 456 4 0.9 % Total operating expenses 5,949 6,337 (388 ) (6.1 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 495 288 207 71.9 % Operating earnings $ 920 $ 580 $ 340 58.6 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products and continued market penetration of our pension closeout business in the U.K. However, structured settlement premiums have declined $174 million, before income tax, from 2009 reflecting extraordinary sales in the fourth quarter of 2009. While market penetration continued in our pension closeout business in the U.K. as the number of sold cases 100 Table of Contents increased, the average premium has declined, resulting in a decrease in premiums of $216 million, before income tax. Although improving, a combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans remaining underfunded, both in the U.S. and in the U.K., which reduces our customers flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts. For each of these businesses, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance liability that is established at the time we assume the risk under these contracts is typically equivalent to the premium recognized. The $340 million increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by an improvement in net investment income and the impact of lower crediting rates, partially offset by the impact of prior period favorable liability refinements and less favorable mortality. The primary driver of the $340 million increase in operating earnings was higher net investment income of $278 million, reflecting a $187 million increase from higher yields and a $91 million increase in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity markets on real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests. These improvements in yields were partially offset by decreased yields on fixed maturity securities due to the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this lower interest rate environment. Growth in the investment portfolio is due to an increase in average policyholder account balances and growth in the securities lending program. To manage the needs of our longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities, and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. For our short term obligations, we invest primarily in structured finance securities, mortgage loans and investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. The yields on these short term investments have moved consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and U.S. Treasury, on which they are based. As many of our products are interest spread based, changes in net investment income are typically offset by a corresponding change in interest credited expense. However, interest credited expense decreased $122 million, primarily related to our funding agreement business as a result of lower average crediting rates combined with lower average account balances. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, which were lower than the prior year. Interest credited expense related to the structured settlement businesses increased $40 million as a result of the increase in the average policyholder liabilities. Mortality experience was mixed and reduced operating earnings in 2010 by $26 million. Less favorable mortality in our pension closeouts and corporate owned life insurance businesses compared to 2009 was only slightly offset by favorable mortality experience in our structured settlements business. Liability refinements in both the current and prior year resulted in a $28 million decrease to operating earnings. These were largely offset by the impact of a charge in the 2009 period related to a refinement of a reinsurance recoverable in the small business recordkeeping business which increased operating earnings by $20 million. 101 Table of Contents Auto Home Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 2,923 $ 2,902 $ 21 0.7 % Net investment income 209 180 29 16.1 % Other revenues 22 33 (11 ) (33.3 )% Total operating revenues 3,154 3,115 39 1.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 2,021 1,932 89 4.6 % Capitalization of DAC (448 ) (435 ) (13 ) (3.0 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 439 436 3 0.7 % Other expenses 769 764 5 0.7 % Total operating expenses 2,781 2,697 84 3.1 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 73 96 (23 ) (24.0 )% Operating earnings $ 300 $ 322 $ (22 ) (6.8 )% Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improving housing and automobile markets have provided opportunities that led to increased new business sales for both homeowners and auto policies in 2010. Sales of new policies increased 11% for our homeowners business and 4% for our auto business in 2010 compared to 2009. Average premium per policy also improved in 2010 over 2009 in our homeowners businesses but remained flat in our auto business. The primary driver of the $22 million decrease in operating earnings was unfavorable claims experience, partially offset by higher net investment income and increased premiums. Catastrophe related losses increased by $58 million compared to 2009 due to increases in both the number and severity of storms. Current period claim costs decreased $19 million as a result of lower frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses; however, this was partially offset by a $13 million increase in claims due to higher severity in our homeowners business. Also contributing to the decline in operating earnings was an increase of $7 million in loss adjusting expenses, primarily related to a decrease in our unallocated loss adjusting expense liabilities at the end of 2009. The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, increasing to 94.6% in 2010 from 92.3% in 2009 and the favorable change in the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreasing to 88.1% in 2010 from 88.9% in 2009. A $19 million increase in net investment income partially offset the declines in operating earnings discussed above. Net investment income was higher primarily as a result of an increase in average invested assets, including changes in allocated equity, partially offset by a decrease in yields. This portfolio is comprised primarily of high quality municipal bonds. The increase in average premium per policy in our homeowners businesses improved operating earnings by $10 million as did an increase in exposures which improved operating earnings by $1 million. Exposures are primarily each automobile for the auto line of business and each residence for the property line of business. Also improving operating earnings, through an increase in premiums, was a $5 million reduction in reinsurance costs. The slight increase in other expenses was more than offset by an $8 million increase in DAC capitalization, resulting primarily from increased premiums written. In addition, a first quarter 2010 write off of an equity interest in a mandatory state underwriting pool required by a change in legislation and a decrease in income from a retroactive reinsurance contract in run off, both of which 102 Table of Contents were recorded in other revenues, drove a $7 million decrease in operating earnings. Auto Home also benefited from a lower effective tax rate which improved operating earnings by $8 million primarily as a result of tax free interest income representing a larger portion of pre tax income. International Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 4,447 $ 3,187 $ 1,260 39.5 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1,329 1,061 268 25.3 % Net investment income 1,703 1,193 510 42.7 % Other revenues 35 14 21 150.0 % Total operating revenues 7,514 5,455 2,059 37.7 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 3,723 2,660 1,063 40.0 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 683 581 102 17.6 % Capitalization of DAC (968 ) (630 ) (338 ) (53.7 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 537 415 122 29.4 % Interest expense on debt 3 8 (5 ) (62.5 )% Other expenses 2,538 1,797 741 41.2 % Total operating expenses 6,516 4,831 1,685 34.9 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 206 161 45 28.0 % Operating earnings $ 792 $ 463 $ 329 71.1 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax and are on a constant currency basis. The constant currency basis amounts for both periods are calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates for 2010. The improvement in the global financial markets has resulted in continued growth, with a 24% increase in sales in the current period compared to the prior period excluding the results of our Japan joint venture. Retirement and savings sales increased 30% driven by strong annuity, universal life and pension sales in Europe, Mexico, Chile, South Korea and China. In our Europe and the Middle East operations, sales of annuities and universal life products remained strong, more than doubling from the prior year, partially offset by lower pension and variable universal life sales in India due to the loss of a major distributor, as well as lower credit life sales. Our Latin America operation experienced an overall increase in sales resulting from solid growth in pension and universal life sales in Mexico and an increase in fixed annuity sales in Chile due to market recovery, slightly offset by lower bank sales in Brazil resulting from incentives offered in the prior year. Sales in our Asia Pacific operation, excluding the results of our Japan joint venture, increased primarily due to higher variable universal life sales in South Korea, slightly offset by the decline in annuity sales and strong bank channel sales in China. We have experienced lower sales in Taiwan following the announcement of the planned sale of this business. While the third partys application for approval of the sale of our Taiwan affiliate was rejected by the Taiwan Financial Supervising Commission, the Company continues to explore strategic options with respect to this affiliate. Reported operating earnings increased by $329 million over the prior year. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $38 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, operating earnings increased $291 million, or 58%. Reported operating earnings reflect the operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, which contributed $114 million to our 2010 operating earnings. As previously noted, 103 Table of Contents ALICOs accounting year end is November 30; therefore, Internationals results for the year include one month of ALICO results. Changes in assumptions for measuring the impact of inflation on certain inflation indexed fixed maturity securities increased operating earnings by $124 million. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings of $86 million, resulting from a $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 from a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit $52 million in the current year from additional permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. Business growth in our Latin America operation contributed to an increase in operating earnings. Operating earnings in Mexico increased $56 million from growth in our institutional and individual businesses, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable claims experience of $26 million. Higher investment yields resulting from portfolio restructuring was the primary driver in Argentina contributing $23 million to the improvement in operating earnings. Indias results benefited by $10 million primarily due to lower expenses resulting from the loss of a major distributor and slower growth resulting from market conditions. Partially offsetting these increases is the impact of pesification in Argentina, which favorably impacted 2009 reported earnings by $95 million. This prior period benefit was due to a liability release resulting from a reassessment of our approach in managing existing and potential future claims related to certain social security pension annuity contractholders in Argentina. In addition, operating earnings in Australia were lower by $9 million, which was primarily due to a write off of DAC attributable to a change in a product feature in the current period. In addition to a $133 million increase due to the inclusion of ALICO results, net investment income increased $102 million from growth in average invested assets and $88 million from improved yields. Growth in average invested assets reflects growth in our businesses. Improved yields reflects the impact of increased inflation, primarily in Chile, as well as the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the effects of inflation on certain inflation indexed fixed maturity securities. The increase in net investment income from higher inflation was offset by an increase in the related insurance liabilities due to higher inflation. Although diversification into higher yielding investments had a positive impact on yields, this was partially offset by decreased trading and other securities results driven by a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 compared to 2010, primarily in Hong Kong, and by a decrease in the results of our operating joint ventures. The reduction in net investment income from our trading portfolio is entirely offset by a corresponding decrease in the interest credited on the related contractholder account balances and therefore had no impact on operating earnings. In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of the pesification in Argentina noted above, as well as current period business growth in South Korea, Brazil and Mexico, which resulted in $93 million of increased commissions and compensation. These increases were partially offset by $33 million of lower commissions and business expenses in India. 104 Table of Contents Banking, Corporate Other Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 11 $ 19 $ (8 ) (42.1 )% Net investment income 992 477 515 108.0 % Other revenues 1,044 1,092 (48 ) (4.4 )% Total operating revenues 2,047 1,588 459 28.9 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends (14 ) 4 (18 ) (450.0 )% Interest credited to bank deposits 137 163 (26 ) (16.0 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1 3 (2 ) (66.7 )% Interest expense on debt 1,126 1,027 99 9.6 % Other expenses 1,155 1,336 (181 ) (13.5 )% Total operating expenses 2,405 2,533 (128 ) (5.1 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (300 ) (617 ) 317 51.4 % Operating earnings (58 ) (328 ) 270 82.3 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (180 ) $ (450 ) $ 270 60.0 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During 2010, mortgage refinancing activity continued to return to more moderate levels compared to the unusually high levels experienced in 2009. Consistent with these market conditions, we experienced a $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage production during 2010, while our serviced residential mortgage loans increased $20.1 billion, which includes a $16.5 billion purchase from a FDIC receivership bank in the third quarter of 2010 and a net sale of $4.8 billion to FNMA in the second quarter of 2010. Servicing run off of existing business slowed to 18.2% in 2010 compared with 19.6% in 2009. The Holding Company completed four debt financings in August 2010 in anticipation of the Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of 5.875% senior notes, and $250 million of floating rate senior notes. The Holding Company also issued debt securities, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used to finance the Acquisition. The Holding Company completed three debt issuances in 2009 in response to the economic crisis, issuing $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009, $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July 2009. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used for general corporate purposes. Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings, which excludes preferred stock dividends, each increased $270 million, primarily due to an increase in net investment income and a reduction in operating expenses, partially offset by a decline in mortgage banking revenues, a decrease in tax benefit and an increase in interest expense resulting from the debt issuances noted above. Net investment income increased $335 million reflecting an increase of $189 million due to higher yields and an increase of $146 million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. This was partially offset by lower fixed maturities yields which were adversely impacted by the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this lower interest rate environment and from decreased trading and other securities results due to a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 as compared to 2010. In addition, due to the lower interest rate environment in the current year, less net investment income was credited to the segments in 2010 compared to 2009. Growth in average invested assets was primarily due to an 105 Table of Contents increase in bank deposits, higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative counterparties and the temporary investment of the proceeds from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. Our investments primarily include structured finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement, including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures, trading securities and equity securities. Banking, Corporate Other benefited in 2010 from a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, a $35 million decrease in real estate related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs. Other expenses also include a $48 million decrease in commissions as a result of the decline in residential mortgage loan production discussed below. These savings were partially offset by a $14 million increase in charitable contributions. The current year also included $44 million of internal resource costs for associates committed to the Acquisition and a $23 million increase in expenses associated with expanding the infrastructure of our banking business. Additionally, the positive resolution of certain legal matters increased operating earnings by $27 million. The $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage loan production resulted in a $131 million decrease in operating earnings, $32 million of which is reflected in net investment income with the remainder largely attributable to a reduction in fee income. The increase in the serviced residential mortgage loan portfolio improved operating earnings by $41 million despite the increased infrastructure expenses discussed above. Maturing time deposits and the need for liquidity in the lower interest rate environment of 2010 resulted in a $17 million decrease in interest credited to bank deposits, despite growth of $1.7 billion in deposits. Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a result of the debt issuances in 2009 and the senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements. The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was enacted. As a result, we incurred a $75 million charge in the first quarter of 2010. The Health Care Act also amended Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) as a result of which MetLife was initially considered a healthcare provider, as defined, and would be subject to limits on tax deductibility of certain types of compensation. In December 2010, the Internal Revenue Service issued Notice 2011 2 which clarified that the executive compensation deduction limitation included in the Health Care Act did not apply to insurers like MetLife selling de minimis amounts of health care coverage. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reversed $18 million of previously recorded taxes for 2010. In 2009, Banking, Corporate Other received a larger benefit of $36 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Unfavorable market conditions continued through 2009, providing a challenging business environment. The largest and most significant impact continued to be on our investment portfolio as declining yields resulted in lower net investment income. Market sensitive expenses were also negatively impacted by the market conditions as evidenced by an increase in pension and postretirement benefit costs. Higher levels of unemployment continued to impact certain group businesses as a decrease in covered payrolls reduced growth. Our auto and homeowners business was impacted by a declining housing market, the deterioration of the new auto sales market and the continuation of credit availability issues, all of which contributed to a decrease in insured exposures. Despite the challenging business environment, revenue growth remained solid in the majority of our businesses. A flight to 106 Table of Contents quality during the year contributed to an improvement in sales in both our domestic fixed and variable annuity products. We also saw an increase in market share, especially in the structured settlement business, where we experienced an increase of 53% in premiums. An improvement in the global financial markets contributed to a recovery of sales in most of our international regions and resulted in improved investment performance in some regions during the second half of 2009. We also benefited domestically from a strong residential mortgage refinance market and healthy growth in the reverse mortgage arena. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 26,460 $ 25,914 $ 546 2.1 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 5,203 5,381 (178 ) (3.3 )% Net investment income 14,837 16,289 (1,452 ) (8.9 )% Other revenues 2,329 1,586 743 46.8 % Net investment gains (losses) (2,906 ) (2,098 ) (808 ) (38.5 )% Net derivative gains (losses) (4,866 ) 3,910 (8,776 ) (224.5 )% Total revenues 41,057 50,982 (9,925 ) (19.5 )% Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 29,986 29,188 798 2.7 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 4,849 4,788 61 1.3 % Interest credited to bank deposits 163 166 (3 ) (1.8 )% Capitalization of DAC (3,019 ) (3,092 ) 73 2.4 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1,307 3,489 (2,182 ) (62.5 )% Interest expense on debt 1,044 1,051 (7 ) (0.7 )% Other expenses 11,061 10,333 728 7.0 % Total expenses 45,391 45,923 (532 ) (1.2 )% Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax (4,334 ) 5,059 (9,393 ) (185.7 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (2,015 ) 1,580 (3,595 ) (227.5 )% Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax (2,319 ) 3,479 (5,798 ) (166.7 )% Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 41 (201 ) 242 120.4 % Net income (loss) (2,278 ) 3,278 (5,556 ) (169.5 )% Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (32 ) 69 (101 ) (146.4 )% Net income (loss) attributable to MetLife, Inc. (2,246 ) 3,209 (5,455 ) (170.0 )% Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 125 (3 ) (2.4 )% Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders $ (2,368 ) $ 3,084 $ (5,452 ) (176.8 )% Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLifes income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The year over year change was predominantly due to a $5.7 billion unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) to losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 from gains of $2.5 billion in 2008, and a $525 million unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses). Offsetting these unfavorable variances totaling $6.2 billion were favorable changes in adjustments related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses) of $972 million, net of income tax, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization, resulting in a total unfavorable variance related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses), net of related adjustments and income tax, of $5.2 billion. We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined ALM principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net of income tax, risk adjusted net investment income and risk adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. 107 Table of Contents These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint ventures provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels. Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include current and expected market conditions and expectations for changes within our unique mix of products and business segments. The composition of the investment portfolio of each business segment is tailored to the unique characteristics of its insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly, certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in fixed maturity securities, or certain sub sectors of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios. Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are generated and can change significantly from period to period, due to changes in external influences including movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and credit spreads, counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation, and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing that can generate gains and losses. As an investor in the fixed income, equity security, mortgage loan and certain other invested asset classes, we are exposed to the above stated risks, which can lead to both impairments and credit related losses. In addition to the above risk management strategies, as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio, we use freestanding derivatives to hedge market risks including changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and the equity market. We also use freestanding derivatives to hedge these same risks in certain of our liabilities, including variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. For those hedges not designated as an accounting hedge, changes in these market risks can lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged even though these are effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue liabilities and purchase assets that contain embedded derivatives whose changes in estimated fair value are sensitive to changes in market risks and are also recognized in net derivative gains (losses). The unfavorable variance in net derivative gains (losses) of $5.7 billion, from gains of $2.5 billion in 2008 to losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 was primarily driven by an unfavorable change in freestanding derivatives of $8.6 billion from gains in the prior period of $4.3 billion to losses in the current period of $4.3 billion. This unfavorable variance was partially offset by a favorable change in embedded derivatives primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees of $2.9 billion from losses in the prior period of $1.7 billion to gains in the current period of $1.2 billion. The $8.6 billion unfavorable variance in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including rising interest rates, improving equity markets on equity options and futures, decreased equity volatility, weakening U.S. dollar, and narrowing credit spreads. Long term and mid term interest rates increased in the current period which caused a negative impact of $4.4 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $1.2 billion of which is attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. Equity markets improved while equity volatility decreased in the current period, which had a net negative impact of $3.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we use to hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. Weakening of the U.S. dollar in the current period had a negative impact of $646 million on certain foreign currency derivatives that are used to hedge foreign denominated asset and liability exposures. Narrowing corporate credit spreads had a negative impact of $453 million on our purchased protection credit derivatives. The variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees containing embedded derivatives are measured at fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the related liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The $2.9 billion favorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to rising interest rates, improving equity market performance, a decrease in equity volatility, and weakening of the U.S. dollar, which was offset by the 108 Table of Contents unfavorable change in the adjustment for nonperformance risk. Both long term and mid term interest rates increased in the current period which had a positive impact of $2.2 billion. Improving equity markets in the current period had a positive impact of $1.5 billion. Lower equity market volatility in the current period compared to the prior period had a positive impact of $817 million, and the weakening U.S. dollar had a positive impact of $456 million. The favorable results from these hedged risks was partially offset by an unfavorable change related to the adjustment for nonperformance risk of $3.2 billion, from gains of $1.9 billion in 2008 to losses of $1.3 billion in 2009. Gains on the freestanding derivatives that hedged these embedded derivative risks more than offset the change in liabilities attributable to market factors, excluding the adjustment for nonperformance risk. Finally, there was a favorable change of $1.1 billion for all other unhedged risks on the variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities. The $525 million unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) was primarily attributable to higher net losses on mortgage loans and other limited partnership interests. The increase in losses on mortgage loans was principally due to increases in mortgage valuation allowances resulting from weakening of the real estate market and other economic fundamentals. The increase in losses on other limited partnership interests was principally due to higher impairments on certain cost method investments which experienced a reduction in net asset values of the underlying portfolio companies. The underlying valuations of the portfolio companies have decreased due to the current economic environment. As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, it is our measure of performance, as reported below. Operating earnings is not determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings available to common shareholders decreased by $329 million to $2.4 billion in 2009 from $2.7 billion in 2008. Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating earnings available to common shareholders Year Ended December 31, 2009 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ (418 ) $ (628 ) $ (581 ) $ 321 $ (280 ) $ (733 ) $ (2,319 ) Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (105 ) (269 ) (2,906 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,426 ) (421 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Adjustments to continuing operations (1) (139 ) 519 125 (206 ) (16 ) 283 Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit 837 504 621 1 366 354 2,683 Operating earnings $ 1,142 $ 308 $ 580 $ 322 $ 463 (328 ) 2,487 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (450 ) $ 2,365 109 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 2,195 $ 539 $ (256 ) $ 275 $ 553 $ 173 $ 3,479 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (1,219 ) (669 ) (1,682 ) (89 ) (91 ) 1,652 (2,098 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 2,777 1,842 (219 ) (45 ) 260 (705 ) 3,910 Less: Adjustments to continuing operations (1) (193 ) (622 ) 82 52 17 (664 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (480 ) (192 ) 637 46 (147 ) (352 ) (488 ) Operating earnings $ 1,310 $ 180 $ 926 $ 363 $ 479 (439 ) 2,819 Less: Preferred stock dividends 125 125 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (564 ) $ 2,694 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses Year Ended December 31, 2009 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 23,483 $ 3,725 $ 5,486 $ 3,113 $ 4,383 $ 867 $ 41,057 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (105 ) (269 ) (2,906 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,426 ) (421 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) (27 ) (27 ) Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (74 ) (219 ) 188 (169 ) 22 (252 ) Total operating revenues $ 25,842 $ 5,903 $ 7,205 $ 3,115 $ 5,455 $ 1,588 $ 49,108 Total expenses $ 24,165 $ 4,690 $ 6,400 $ 2,697 $ 4,868 $ 2,571 $ 45,391 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 39 (739 ) (700 ) Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) (1 ) 1 63 37 38 138 Total operating expenses $ 24,127 $ 5,428 $ 6,337 $ 2,697 $ 4,831 $ 2,533 $ 45,953 110 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Corporate Banking, Insurance Retirement Benefit Auto Corporate Products Products Funding Home International Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 26,754 $ 6,487 $ 6,700 $ 3,061 $ 6,001 $ 1,979 $ 50,982 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (1,219 ) (669 ) (1,682 ) (89 ) (91 ) 1,652 (2,098 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 2,777 1,842 (219 ) (45 ) 260 (705 ) 3,910 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 18 18 Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (1 ) (45 ) 53 69 13 89 Total operating revenues $ 25,179 $ 5,359 $ 8,548 $ 3,195 $ 5,763 $ 1,019 $ 49,063 Total expenses $ 23,418 $ 5,665 $ 7,119 $ 2,728 $ 5,044 $ 1,949 $ 45,923 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 262 577 839 Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) (52 ) (29 ) 17 (4 ) (68 ) Total operating expenses $ 23,208 $ 5,088 $ 7,148 $ 2,728 $ 5,027 $ 1,953 $ 45,152 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. The volatile market conditions that began in 2008 and continued into 2009 impacted several key components of our operating earnings available to common shareholders including net investment income, hedging costs, and certain market sensitive expenses. The markets also positively impacted our operating earnings available to common shareholders as conditions began to improve during 2009, resulting in lower DAC and DSI amortization. A $722 million decline in net investment income was the result of decreasing yields, including the effects of our higher quality, more liquid, but lower yielding investment position in response to the extraordinary market conditions. The impact of declining yields caused a $1.6 billion decrease in net investment income, which was partially offset by an increase of $846 million due to growth in average invested assets calculated excluding unrealized gains and losses. The decrease in yields resulted from the disruption and dislocation in the global financial markets experienced in 2008, which continued, but moderated, in 2009. The adverse yield impact was concentrated in the following four invested asset classes: Fixed maturity securities primarily due to lower yields on floating rate securities from declines in short term interest rates and an increased allocation to lower yielding, higher quality, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities, to increase liquidity in response to the extraordinary market conditions, as well as decreased income on our securities lending program, primarily due to the smaller size of the program in the current year. These adverse impacts were offset slightly as conditions improved late in 2009 and we began to reallocate our portfolio to higher yielding assets; Real estate joint ventures primarily due to declining property valuations on certain investment funds that carry their real estate at estimated fair value and operating losses incurred on properties that were developed for sale by development joint ventures; Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments primarily due to declines in short term interest rates; and Mortgage loans primarily due to lower prepayments on commercial mortgage loans and lower yields on variable rate loans reflecting declines in short term interest rates. 111 Table of Contents Equity markets experienced some recovery in 2009, which led to improved yields on other limited partnership interests. As many of our products are interest spread based, the lower net investment income was significantly offset by lower interest credited expense on our investment and insurance products. The financial market conditions also resulted in a $348 million increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit costs in our Retirement Products segment, as increased hedging losses were only partially offset by lower guaranteed benefit costs. The key driver of the increase in other expenses stemmed from the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, primarily pension and postretirement benefit costs, reinsurance expenses and letter of credit fees. These increases coupled with higher variable costs, such as commissions and premium taxes, some of which have been capitalized, more than offset the favorable impact of lower information technology, travel, professional services and advertising expenses, which include the impact of our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. The market improvement which began in the second quarter of 2009 was a key factor in the determination of our expected future gross profits, the increase of which triggered a decrease in DAC and DSI amortization, most significantly in the Retirement Products segment. The increase in our expected future gross profits stemmed primarily from an increase in the market value of our separate account balances, which is attributable, in part, to the improving financial markets. Our Insurance Products segment benefited, in the current year, from an increase in amortization of unearned revenue, primarily as a result of our annual review of assumptions that are used in the determination of the amount of amortization recognized. These collective changes in amortization resulted in a $720 million benefit, partially offsetting the declines in operating earnings available to common shareholders discussed above. A portion of the decline in operating earnings available to common shareholders was caused by a $200 million reduction in the results of our closed block of business, a specific group of participating life policies that were segregated in connection with the demutualization of MLIC. Until early 2009, the operating earnings of the closed block did not have a full impact on operating earnings as the operating earnings or loss was partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend obligation, a liability established at the time of demutualization. However, in early 2009 the policyholder dividend obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total operating earnings or loss related to the closed block for the year ended December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be a component of operating earnings. Business growth, from the majority of our businesses, along with net favorable mortality experience, had a positive impact on operating earnings available to common shareholders. These impacts were somewhat dampened by higher benefit utilization in our dental business and mixed claim activity in our Auto Home segment. In addition, our forward and reverse residential mortgage platform acquisitions in late 2008 benefited Banking, Corporate Others 2009 results. 112 Table of Contents Insurance Products Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 17,168 $ 16,402 $ 766 4.7 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,281 2,171 110 5.1 % Net investment income 5,614 5,787 (173 ) (3.0 )% Other revenues 779 819 (40 ) (4.9 )% Total operating revenues 25,842 25,179 663 2.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 19,111 18,183 928 5.1 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 952 930 22 2.4 % Capitalization of DAC (873 ) (849 ) (24 ) (2.8 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 725 743 (18 ) (2.4 )% Interest expense on debt 6 5 1 20.0 % Other expenses 4,206 4,196 10 0.2 % Total operating expenses 24,127 23,208 919 4.0 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 573 661 (88 ) (13.3 )% Operating earnings $ 1,142 $ 1,310 $ (168 ) (12.8 )% Unfavorable market conditions, which continued through 2009, provided a challenging business environment for our Insurance Products segment. This resulted in lower net investment income and an increase in market sensitive expenses, primarily pension and postretirement benefit costs. We also experienced higher utilization of dental benefits along with a lower number of recoveries in our disability business. Higher levels of unemployment continued to impact certain group businesses as a decrease in covered payrolls reduced growth. However, revenue growth remained solid in all of our businesses. Revenue growth in our dental and individual life businesses reflected strong sales and renewals. The significant components of the $168 million decline in operating earnings were the aforementioned decline in net investment income, especially in the closed block business, partially offset by an increase in the amortization of unearned revenue, the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain policyholders and favorable mortality in the individual life business. Until early 2009, the earnings of the closed block did not have a full impact on operating earnings as the earnings or loss was partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend obligation. However, in early 2009 the policyholder dividend obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total operating earnings or loss related to the closed block for the year ended December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be, a component of operating earnings. This resulted in a $200 million decline in operating earnings in 2009. The decrease in net investment income of $112 million was primarily due to a $317 million decrease from lower yields, partially offset by a $205 million increase from growth in average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the global financial markets, which primarily impacted other invested assets, real estate joint ventures and fixed maturity securities. In addition, income from our securities lending program decreased primarily due to the smaller size of the program in 2009. The growth in the average invested asset base was primarily from an increase in net flows from our individual life, non medical health, and group life businesses. The moderate recovery in equity markets in 2009 led to improved yields on other limited partnership interests, which partially offset the overall reduction in yields. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities (comprised of mortgage and asset backed securities), mortgage loans, and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes 113 Table of Contents including real estate joint ventures and other invested assets to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. Other expenses were essentially flat despite an increase of $137 million from the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, primarily pension and postretirement benefit costs. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $85 million, predominantly from declines in information technology, travel, and professional services, including the positive impact of our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. A further reduction of expenses was achieved through a decrease in variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes of $46 million, a portion of which is offset by DAC capitalization. The aforementioned declines in operating earnings were partially offset by the favorable impact of a $63 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business, the result of a dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of 2009. In addition, favorable mortality in the individual life business was partially offset by higher benefit utilization in the dental business during 2009, reflecting the negative employment trends in the marketplace. The net impact of these two items benefited operating earnings by $36 million. The 2009 results were also favorably impacted by our review of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and margins, which in turn are factors in determining the amortization for DAC and unearned revenue. This review resulted in an unlocking event related to unearned revenue and, coupled with the impact from the prior years review, generated an increase in operating earnings of $82 million. This increase was recorded in universal life and investment type product policy fees. Partially offsetting these increases was the impact of lower separate account balances, which resulted in lower fee income of $25 million. DAC amortization reflects lower current year amortization of $108 million, stemming from the impact of the improvement in the financial markets in 2009, which increased our expected future gross profits, as well as lower current year gross margins in the closed block. This decrease was partially offset by the net impact of refinements in both the prior and current years of $98 million, the majority of which was recorded in the prior year as a result of the 2008 review of certain DAC related assumptions. Retirement Products Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 920 $ 696 $ 224 32.2 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1,712 1,870 (158 ) (8.4 )% Net investment income 3,098 2,624 474 18.1 % Other revenues 173 169 4 2.4 % Total operating revenues 5,903 5,359 544 10.2 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 1,950 1,271 679 53.4 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,688 1,338 350 26.2 % Capitalization of DAC (1,067 ) (980 ) (87 ) (8.9 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 424 1,356 (932 ) (68.7 )% Interest expense on debt 2 (2 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 2,433 2,101 332 15.8 % Total operating expenses 5,428 5,088 340 6.7 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 167 91 76 83.5 % Operating earnings $ 308 $ 180 $ 128 71.1 % In 2009, Retirement Products benefited from a flight to quality, which contributed to a 10% improvement in combined sales of our fixed and variable products and a 28% reduction in surrenders and withdrawals. Our variable 114 Table of Contents annuity sales have outpaced the industry, increasing our market share. Fixed annuity sales benefited from enhanced marketing on our income annuity with life contingency products, which increased our premium revenues by $224 million, or 32%, before income taxes. In the annuity business, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits, as the insurance liability that we establish at the time we assume the risk under these contracts is typically equivalent to the premium earned less the amount of acquisition expenses. Our average PAB grew by $7.2 billion in 2009, primarily due to an increase in sales of fixed annuity products and more customers electing the fixed option on variable annuity sales. This has a favorable impact on earnings by increasing net investment income, which is somewhat offset by higher interest credited expense. Unfavorable market conditions resulted in poor investment performance, which outweighed the impact of higher variable annuity sales on our separate account balances causing the average separate account balance to remain lower than the previous year. This resulted in lower policy fees and other revenues which are based on daily asset balances in the policyholder separate accounts. The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver of the $128 million increase in operating earnings, with the largest impact resulting in a decrease in DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization of $655 million. The 2008 results reflected increased, or accelerated, amortization primarily stemming from a decline in the market value of our separate account balances. A factor that determines the amount of amortization is expected future earnings, which in the annuity business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. The market value of our separate account balances declined significantly in 2008, resulting in a decrease in the expected future gross profits, triggering an acceleration of amortization in 2008. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the market conditions began to improve and the market value of our separate account balances began to increase, resulting in an increase in the expected future gross profits and a corresponding lower level of amortization in 2009. Also contributing to the increase in operating earnings was an increase in net investment income of $308 million, which was primarily due to a $286 million increase from growth in average invested assets and a $22 million increase in yields. The increase in average invested assets was due to increased cash flows from the sales of fixed annuity products and more customers electing the fixed option on variable annuity sales, which were reinvested primarily in fixed maturity securities, other invested assets and mortgage loans. The increase in yields was due to moderate improvement in the equity markets in 2009 which led to an increase in yields principally for other limited partnership interests and certain other invested assets, which was partially offset by a decrease in yields on real estate joint ventures, reflecting the severe downturn in the global financial markets. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes, including real estate joint ventures in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. As is typically the case with fixed annuity products, higher net investment income was somewhat offset by higher interest credited expense. Growth in our fixed annuity policyholder account balances increased interest credited expense by $186 million in 2009 and higher average crediting rates on fixed annuities increased interest credited expense by $27 million. Operating earnings were negatively impacted by $348 million of operating losses related to the hedging programs for variable annuity minimum death and income benefit guarantees, which are not embedded derivatives, partially offset by a decrease in the liability established for these variable annuity guarantees. The various hedging strategies in place to offset the risk associated with these variable annuity guarantee benefits were more sensitive to market movements than the liability for the guaranteed benefit. Market volatility, improvements in the equity markets, and higher interest rates produced operating losses on these hedging strategies in the current year. Our hedging strategies, which are a key part of our risk management, performed as anticipated. The decrease in annuity guarantee benefit liabilities was due to the improvement in the equity markets, higher interest rates and the annual unlocking of future market expectations. Other expenses increased by $216 million primarily due to an increase of $123 million from the impact of market conditions on certain expenses. These expenses are largely comprised of reinsurance costs, pension and postretirement benefit expenses, and letter of credit fees. In addition, variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, increased $77 million, the majority of which have been offset by DAC capitalization. The positive impact of our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative was reflected in lower travel, 115 Table of Contents professional services and advertising expenses, but was more than offset by increases largely due to business growth. Finally, policy fees and other revenues decreased by $100 million, mainly due to lower average separate account balances in the current year versus prior year. Corporate Benefit Funding Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 2,264 $ 2,348 $ (84 ) (3.6 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 176 227 (51 ) (22.5 )% Net investment income 4,527 5,615 (1,088 ) (19.4 )% Other revenues 238 358 (120 ) (33.5 )% Total operating revenues 7,205 8,548 (1,343 ) (15.7 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 4,245 4,398 (153 ) (3.5 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,632 2,297 (665 ) (29.0 )% Capitalization of DAC (14 ) (18 ) 4 22.2 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 15 29 (14 ) (48.3 )% Interest expense on debt 3 2 1 50.0 % Other expenses 456 440 16 3.6 % Total operating expenses 6,337 7,148 (811 ) (11.3 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 288 474 (186 ) (39.2 )% Operating earnings $ 580 $ 926 $ (346 ) (37.4 )% Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in certain markets in 2009 as a flight to quality helped drive our increase in market share, especially in the structured settlement business, where we experienced a 53% increase in premiums. Our pension closeout business in the U.K .continues to expand and experienced premium growth during 2009 of almost $400 million, or 105% before income taxes. However, this growth was more than offset by a decline in our domestic pension closeout business driven by unfavorable market conditions and regulatory changes. A combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans being under funded, which reduces our customers flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts. Our customers plans funded status may be affected by a variety of factors, including the ongoing phased implementation of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, a comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. For each of these businesses, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance liability that is established at the time we assume the risk under these contracts is typically equivalent to the premium earned. Market conditions also contributed to a lower demand for several of our investment type products. The decrease in sales of these investment type products is not necessarily evident in our results of operations as the transactions related to these products are recorded through the balance sheet. Our funding agreement products, primarily the LIBOR based contracts, experienced the most significant impact from the volatile market conditions. As companies seek greater liquidity, investment managers are refraining from repurchasing the contracts when they mature and are opting for more liquid investments. In addition, unfavorable market conditions continued to impact the demand for global guaranteed interest contracts, a type of funding agreement. Policyholder account balances for our investment type products were down by approximately $10 billion during 2009, as issuances were more than offset by scheduled maturities. However, due to the timing of issuances and maturities, the average policyholder account balances and liabilities increased from 2008 to 2009. The impact 116 Table of Contents of the decrease in policyholder account balances resulted in lower net investment income, which was somewhat offset by lower interest credited expense. The primary driver of the $346 million decrease in operating earnings was lower net investment income of $707 million reflecting a $682 million decrease from lower yields and a $25 million increase due to growth in average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the global financial markets which impacted real estate joint ventures, fixed maturity securities, other invested assets and mortgage loans. In addition, income from our securities lending program decreased, primarily due to the smaller size of the program during the year. To manage the needs of our longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes including real estate joint ventures in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. For our shorter term obligations, we invest primarily in structured finance securities, mortgage loans and investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. The yields on these investments have moved consistent with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and Treasury, on which they are based. The growth in the average invested asset base is consistent with the increase in the average policyholder account balances and liabilities. As many of our products are interest spread based, the lower net investment income was somewhat offset by lower net interest credited expense of $380 million. The decrease in interest credited expense is attributed to $431 million from lower crediting rates. Crediting rates have moved consistent with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, on which they are based. The increase in the average policyholder account balances resulted in a $51 million increase in interest credited expense. The year over year decline in operating earnings was also due in part to lower other revenues as the prior year benefited by $44 million in fees for the cancellation of a bank owned life insurance stable value wrap policy combined with the surrender of a global guaranteed interest contract. In addition, a refinement to a reinsurance recoverable in the small business record keeping line of business in the latter part of 2009 also contributed $20 million to the decrease in operating earnings. Current year results benefited from favorable liability refinements as compared to unfavorable liability refinements in 2008, as well as improved mortality experience in the current year, all in the pension closeouts business. These items improved 2009 operating earnings by approximately $90 million. Other products generated mortality gains or losses; however, the net change did not have a material impact on our year over year results. Although our other expenses only increased marginally and are not a significant driver of the decrease in operating earnings, the general themes associated with the increase are consistent with those factors discussed above in the discussion of our consolidated results of operations. Market conditions triggered an increase in our pension and postretirement benefit expenses of $26 million. In addition, variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, have increased $20 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $36 million, primarily in information technology, travel and professional services expenses, all of which were largely due to our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. 117 Table of Contents Auto Home Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 2,902 $ 2,971 $ (69 ) (2.3 )% Net investment income 180 186 (6 ) (3.2 )% Other revenues 33 38 (5 ) (13.2 )% Total operating revenues 3,115 3,195 (80 ) (2.5 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 1,932 1,924 8 0.4 % Capitalization of DAC (435 ) (444 ) 9 2.0 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 436 454 (18 ) (4.0 )% Other expenses 764 794 (30 ) (3.8 )% Total operating expenses 2,697 2,728 (31 ) (1.1 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 96 104 (8 ) (7.7 )% Operating earnings $ 322 $ 363 $ (41 ) (11.3 )% Auto Home was negatively impacted in 2009 by a declining housing market, the deterioration of the new auto sales market and the continuation of credit availability issues, all of which contributed to a decrease in insured exposures in 2009. Average premiums per policy increased slightly for our homeowners policies but decreased for auto policies, primarily as a result of a business shift in insured exposures by state. In particular, we experienced a large decrease in earned exposures in Massachusetts, whose market was impacted by a regulatory change, which resulted in a marked increase in competition. A return to more normal weather conditions in 2009 resulted in fewer, and less severe, catastrophe events than in 2008. This was more than offset by an increase in both non catastrophe claim frequencies and non catastrophe claim severities in 2009. Mixed claim experience and the impact of lower exposures were the primary drivers of the $41 million decrease in operating earnings. While we had a $90 million decrease in catastrophe related losses compared to the prior year, we also recorded $68 million less of a benefit in 2009 from favorable development of prior year non catastrophe losses. Current year claim costs rose primarily as a result of a $29 million increase in claim frequency from both our auto and homeowners products. In addition, we had a $15 million net increase in claim severity, stemming from higher severity in our auto line of business that was partially offset by lower severity in our homeowners line of business. In 2009, we experienced a decline in insured exposures, which contributed approximately $16 million to the decrease in operating earnings. While this decrease in exposures had a positive impact on the amount of claims, it was more than offset by the negative impact on premiums. The decrease in exposures is largely attributable to slightly higher non renewal rates, partially offset by greater sales of new policies. Also contributing to the decline in earnings was a decrease of $9 million in the average premium per policy, which is primarily due to a shift in earned exposures to lower average premium states and an increase of $10 million in loss adjustment expenses, primarily related to a decrease in unallocated loss adjusting expense liabilities at the end of 2008. The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, to 88.9% in 2009 from 83.1% in 2008 and the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 92.3% in 2009 from 91.2% in 2008. A $25 million decrease in other expenses, including the net change in DAC, partially offset the declines in operating earnings discussed above. This improvement resulted from decreases in sales related expenses and from minor fluctuations in a number of expense categories, a portion of which is due to our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. 118 Table of Contents Also contributing to the decrease in operating earnings was a decline in net investment income of $4 million which was primarily due to a $9 million decrease from a decline in average invested assets, partially offset by an increase of $5 million due to improved yields. International Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 3,187 $ 3,470 $ (283 ) (8.2 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1,061 1,095 (34 ) (3.1 )% Net investment income 1,193 1,180 13 1.1 % Other revenues 14 18 (4 ) (22.2 )% Total operating revenues 5,455 5,763 (308 ) (5.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 2,660 3,185 (525 ) (16.5 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 581 171 410 239.8 % Capitalization of DAC (630 ) (798 ) 168 21.1 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 415 381 34 8.9 % Interest expense on debt 8 9 (1 ) (11.1 )% Other expenses 1,797 2,079 (282 ) (13.6 )% Total operating expenses 4,831 5,027 (196 ) (3.9 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 161 257 (96 ) (37.4 )% Operating earnings $ 463 $ 479 $ (16 ) (3.3 )% An improvement in the global financial markets contributed to a recovery of sales in the majority of our International regions and resulted in improved investment performance in some regions during the second half of 2009. Sales in Asia Pacific were down primarily from a decrease in variable annuity sales in Japan, primarily as a result of pricing actions we took during the latter half of 2009. This decline was somewhat offset by growth in South Koreas fixed annuities product and an increase of variable universal life sales, which are indications that markets are beginning to recover. We experienced growth in the pension, group life, and medical businesses of our Latin America region, specifically in Mexico. Our operations in Europe and the Middle East continue to have strong growth in the European variable annuity business. The reduction in operating earnings includes the adverse impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2009 as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the various foreign currencies. This decreased operating earnings by $99 million in 2009 relative to 2008. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, operating earnings increased $83 million, or 22%, from the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by higher operating earnings of $184 million in our Asia Pacific region, while operating earnings from our Latin America and Europe and Middle East decreased by $83 million and $18 million, respectively. Asia Pacific. Improving financial market conditions was the primary driver of the increase in operating earnings. net investment income in the region increased by $422 million due to an increase of $278 million from improved yields on our investment portfolio, $111 million from the change in results of operating joint ventures, and $33 million from an increase in average invested assets. The increase in yields was primarily due to higher income of $277 million on the trading and other securities portfolio, stemming from equity markets experiencing some recovery in 2009. As our trading and other securities portfolio backs unit linked policyholder liabilities, this increase in income was entirely offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited expense. The income of the Japan joint venture improved by $103 million due to favorable investment results and lower amortization of DAC and VOBA. The decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization was primarily due to an increase in the market value of 119 Table of Contents the joint ventures separate account balances, which is directly tied to the improving financial markets. A factor that determines the amount of DAC and VOBA amortization is expected future fees earned on separate account balances. Since the market value of separate account balances have increased, it is expected that future earnings on this block of business will be higher than previously anticipated. As a result, the amortization of DAC and VOBA was less in the current year. Operating earnings in this region also benefited from higher surrender charges of $16 million. Difficult economic conditions in South Korea during the first half of the year resulted in a higher level of surrenders. Growth in our Japan reinsurance business and an increase in reinsurance rates contributed $21 million to the increase in operating earnings. In addition, the favorable impact of a reduction in the liability for our variable annuity guarantees contributed $22 million to operating earnings. The change in the liability was primarily due to an increase in separate account balances in the Japan joint venture. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize DAC. Because separate account balances have had positive returns relative to the prior year, current estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected which resulted in a decrease in this liability in the current period. Partially offsetting these increases, higher DAC amortization of $49 million resulted from business growth and favorable investment results. Latin America. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily driven by lower net investment income. Net investment income decreased by $297 million due to a decrease of $383 million from lower yields, partially offset by an increase of $86 million due to an increase in average invested assets. The decrease in yields was due, in part, to the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the effects of inflation on certain inflation indexed fixed maturity securities. This decrease was partially offset by a reduction of $221 million in the related insurance liability primarily due to lower inflation. The increase in net investment income attributable to an increase in average invested assets was primarily due to business growth and, as such, was largely offset by increases in policyholder benefits and interest credited expense. Higher claims experience in Mexico resulted in a $45 million decline in operating earnings. The nationalization and reform of the pension business in Argentina impacted both years earnings, resulting in a net $36 million decline in operating earnings. In addition, operating earnings decreased due to a net income tax increase of $8 million in Mexico, resulting from a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings, partially offset by the favorable impact of a lower effective tax rate in 2009. Partially offsetting these decreases in operating earnings was the combination of growth in Mexicos individual and institutional businesses and higher premium rates in its institutional business, which increased operating earnings by $51 million. Pesification in Argentina impacted both the current year and prior year earnings, resulting in a net $73 million increase in operating earnings. This benefit was largely due to a reassessment of our approach in managing existing and potential future claims related to certain social security pension annuity contract holders in Argentina resulting in a liability release. Lower expenses of $8 million resulted primarily from the impact of operational efficiencies achieved through our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. Europe and Middle East. The impact of foreign currency transaction gains and a tax benefit, both of which occurred in the prior year, contributed $12 million to the decline in operating earnings. Our investment of $9 million in our distribution capability and growth initiatives in 2009 also reduced operating earnings. There was an increase in net investment income of $76 million, which was due to an increase of $65 million from an improvement in yields and $11 million from an increase in average invested assets. The increase in yields was primarily due to favorable results on the trading and other securities portfolio, stemming from the equity markets experiencing some recovery in 2009. As our trading and other securities portfolio backs unit linked policyholder liabilities, the trading and other securities portfolio results were entirely offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited expense. The increase in net investment income attributable to an increase in average invested assets was primarily due to business growth and was largely offset by increases in policyholder benefits and interest credited expense, also due to business growth. 120 Table of Contents Banking, Corporate Other Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 19 $ 27 $ (8 ) (29.6 )% Net investment income 477 808 (331 ) (41.0 )% Other revenues 1,092 184 908 493.5 % Total operating revenues 1,588 1,019 569 55.8 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and dividends 4 46 (42 ) (91.3 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 7 (7 ) (100.0 )% Interest credited to bank deposits 163 166 (3 ) (1.8 )% Capitalization of DAC (3 ) 3 100.0 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 3 5 (2 ) (40.0 )% Interest expense on debt 1,027 1,033 (6 ) (0.6 )% Other expenses 1,336 699 637 91.1 % Total operating expenses 2,533 1,953 580 29.7 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (617 ) (495 ) (122 ) (24.6 )% Operating earnings (328 ) (439 ) 111 25.3 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 125 (3 ) (2.4 )% Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (450 ) $ (564 ) $ 114 20.2 % Banking, Corporate Other recognized the full year impact of our forward and reverse residential mortgage platform acquisitions, a strong residential mortgage refinance market, healthy growth in the reverse mortgage arena, and a favorable interest spread environment. Our forward and reverse residential mortgage production of $37.4 billion in 2009 was up 484% compared to 2008 production. The increase in mortgage production drove higher investments in residential mortgage loans held for sale and MSRs. At December 31, 2009, our residential mortgage loans servicing portfolio was $64.1 billion comprised of agency (FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA) portfolios. Transaction and time deposits, which provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity and are used to fund loans and fixed income securities purchases, grew 48% in 2009 to $10.2 billion. Borrowings decreased 10% in 2009 to $2.4 billion. During 2009, we participated in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Term Auction Facility, which provided short term liquidity with low funding costs. In response to the economic crisis and unusual financial market events that occurred in 2008 and continued into 2009, we decided to utilize excess debt capacity. The Holding Company completed three debt issuances in 2009. The Holding Company issued $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009, $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July 2009. In February 2009, in connection with the initial settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued as part of the common equity units sold in June 2005, the Holding Company issued common stock for $1.0 billion. The proceeds from these equity and debt issuances were used for general corporate purposes and have resulted in increased investments and cash and cash equivalents held within Banking, Corporate Other. Operating earnings available to common shareholders improved by $114 million, of which $254 million was due to MetLife Bank and its acquisitions of a residential mortgage origination and servicing business and a reverse mortgage business, both during 2008. Excluding the impact of MetLife Bank, our operating earnings available to common shareholders decreased $140 million, primarily due to lower net investment income, partially offset by the impact of a lower effective tax rate. The lower effective tax rate provided an increased benefit of $139 million from the prior year. This benefit was the result of a partial settlement of certain prior year tax audit issues and increased utilization of tax preferenced investments, which provide tax credits and deductions. 121 Table of Contents Excluding a $68 million increase from MetLife Bank, net investment income decreased $283 million, which was primarily due a decrease of $287 million due to lower yields, partially offset by an increase of $4 million due to an increase in average invested assets. Consistent with the consolidated results of operations discussion above, yields were adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the global financial markets, which primarily impacted fixed maturity securities and real estate joint ventures. The increased average invested asset base was due to cash flows from debt issuances during 2009. Our investments primarily include structured finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures and equity securities. After excluding the impact of a $394 million increase from MetLife Bank, other expenses increased by $20 million. Deferred compensation costs, which are tied to equity market performance, were higher due to a significant market rebound. We also had an increase in costs associated with the implementation of our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative. These increases were partially offset by lower postemployment related costs and corporate related expenses, specifically legal costs. Legal costs were lower largely due to the prior year commutation of asbestos policies. In addition, interest expense declined slightly as a result of rate reductions on variable rate collateral financing arrangements offset by debt issuances in 2009 and 2008. Effects of Inflation The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. Inflation in the U.S. has remained contained and been in a general downward trend for an extended period. However, in light of recent and ongoing aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus measures by the U.S. federal government and foreign governments, it is possible that inflation could increase in the future. Globally, inflation trends can vary by region and between developed and emerging markets. The Japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure as a result of the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal growth and a deflationary environment. As the global economy improves, inflation trends are increasing in other regions, particularly in emerging markets like China and India. In the more developed Eurozone countries, inflation rates, while not as high, have trended upward at a greater pace than in the U.S. An increase in inflation could affect our business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on profitability if such costs can not be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities. Investments Investment Risks. The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; 122 Table of Contents liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments in times of strained market conditions; and market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as credit spreads. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk, market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies; product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit, interest rate, currency and equity market risks. Current Environment. The global economy and markets are now recovering from a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This disruption adversely affected the financial services industry, in particular. The U.S. economy entered a recession in late 2007. This recession ended in mid 2009, but the recovery from the recession has been below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In addition, inflation has fallen over the last several years and is expected to remain at low levels for some time. Some economists believe that some level of disinflation and deflation risk remains in the U.S. economy. Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, not all such markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon government intervention and liquidity. The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has also led to concerns over capital markets access and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. The Japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure to as a result of the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal growth, a deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending. See Industry Trends. See also Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) Summary in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about exposure to sovereign fixed maturity securities of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the net unrealized loss position on fixed maturity and equity securities improved from a net unrealized loss of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2009 to a net unrealized gain of $7.3 billion at December 31, 2010, as a result of a decrease in interest rates, and to a lesser extent, a decrease in credit spreads. Investment Outlook. Recovering private equity markets and stabilizing credit and real estate markets during 2010 had a positive impact on returns and net investment income on private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate funds, which are included within other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint venture portfolios. Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, if there is a resumption of significant disruption, it could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. Net cash flows arising from our business and our investment portfolio will be reinvested in a prudent manner and according to our ALM discipline in appropriate assets over time. We will maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to meet business needs. Net investment income may be adversely affected if excess liquidity is required over an extended period of time to meet changing business needs. 123 Table of Contents Composition of Investment Portfolio and Investment Portfolio Results The following yield table presents the investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending assets and ending carrying value for each of the asset classes within the Companys investment portfolio, as well as investment income and investment portfolio gains (losses) for the investment portfolio as a whole. The yield table also presents gains (losses) on derivative instruments which are used to manage risk for certain invested assets and certain insurance liabilities: At and for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Fixed Maturity Securities: Yield (1) 5.53 % 5.77 % 6.40 % Investment income (2), (3), (4) $ 12,650 $ 11,899 $ 12,403 Investment gains (losses) (3) $ (255 ) $ (1,663 ) $ (1,953 ) Ending carrying value (2), (3) $ 327,878 $ 230,026 $ 189,197 Mortgage Loans: Yield (1) 5.51 % 5.38 % 6.08 % Investment income (3), (4) $ 2,823 $ 2,735 $ 2,774 Investment gains (losses) (3) $ 22 $ (442 ) $ (136 ) Ending carrying value (3) $ 55,536 $ 50,909 $ 51,364 Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures: Yield (1) 1.10 % (7.47 )% 2.98 % Investment income $ 77 $ (541 ) $ 217 Investment gains (losses) $ (40 ) $ (156 ) $ (9 ) Ending carrying value $ 8,030 $ 6,896 $ 7,586 Policy Loans: Yield (1) 6.37 % 6.54 % 6.22 % Investment income $ 657 $ 648 $ 601 Ending carrying value $ 11,914 $ 10,061 $ 9,802 Equity Securities: Yield (1) 4.39 % 5.12 % 5.25 % Investment income $ 128 $ 175 $ 249 Investment gains (losses) $ 104 $ (399 ) $ (253 ) Ending carrying value $ 3,606 $ 3,084 $ 3,197 Other Limited Partnership Interests: Yield (1) 14.99 % 3.22 % (2.77 )% Investment income $ 879 $ 173 $ (170 ) Investment gains (losses) $ (18 ) $ (356 ) $ (140 ) Ending carrying value $ 6,416 $ 5,508 $ 6,039 Cash and Short Term Investments: Yield (1) 0.46 % 0.44 % 1.62 % Investment income $ 81 $ 94 $ 307 Investment gains (losses) $ 2 $ 6 $ 3 Ending carrying value (3) $ 22,394 $ 18,486 $ 38,085 Other Invested Assets: (5) Investment income $ 491 $ 339 $ 279 Investment gains (losses) $ (8 ) $ (32 ) $ 313 Ending carrying value $ 15,430 $ 12,709 $ 17,248 Total Investments: Gross investment income yield (1) 5.29 % 4.90 % 5.68 % Investment fees and expenses yield (0.14 ) (0.14 ) (0.16 ) Investment Income Yield (3) 5.15 % 4.76 % 5.52 % Gross investment income $ 17,786 $ 15,522 $ 16,660 Investment fees and expenses (465 ) (433 ) (460 ) Investment Income (3), (6) $ 17,321 $ 15,089 $ 16,200 Ending Carrying Value (3) $ 451,204 $ 337,679 $ 322,518 Gross investment gains (3) $ 1,200 $ 1,232 $ 1,802 Gross investment losses (3) (848 ) (1,429 ) (1,935 ) Writedowns (545 ) (2,845 ) (2,042 ) Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses) (3), (6) $ (193 ) $ (3,042 ) $ (2,175 ) Investment portfolio gains (losses) income tax (expense) benefit 53 1,121 795 Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses), Net of Income Tax $ (140 ) $ (1,921 ) $ (1,380 ) Derivative Gains (Losses) (6) $ (614 ) $ (5,106 ) $ 3,782 Derivative gains (losses) income tax (expense) benefit $ 160 $ 1,803 $ (1,438 ) Derivative Gains (Losses), Net of Income Tax $ (454 ) $ (3,303 ) $ 2,344 124 Table of Contents As described in the footnotes below, the yield table reflects certain differences from the presentation of invested assets, net investment income, net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) as presented in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations, including the exclusion of contractholder directed unit linked investments classified within trading and other securities, as the contractholder, not the Company, directs the investment of the funds; and the exclusion of the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are consolidated securitization entities (CSEs). We believe this yield table presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment performance for management purposes enhances understanding. (1) Yields are based on average of quarterly average asset carrying values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses), collateral received from counterparties associated with our securities lending program, the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs and, effective October 1, 2010, contractholder directed unit linked investments. Yields also exclude investment income recognized on mortgage loans and securities held by CSEs and, effective October 1, 2010, contractholder directed unit linked investments. (2) Fixed maturity securities include $594 million, $2,384 million and $946 million at estimated fair value of trading and other securities at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include $234 million, $400 million and ($193) million of investment income related to trading and other securities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (3) (a) Fixed maturity securities ending carrying values as presented herein, exclude (i) contractholder directed unit linked investments reported within trading and other securities of $17,794 million, and (ii) securities held by CSEs that are consolidated under GAAP reported within trading and other securities of $201 million at December 31, 2010. Net investment income as presented herein, excludes investment income on contractholder directed unit linked investments reported within trading and other securities effective October 1, 2010 as shown in footnote (6) to this yield table. (b) Ending carrying values, investment income and investment gains (losses) as presented herein, exclude the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. The adjustment to investment income and investment gains (losses) in the aggregate are as shown in footnote (6) to this yield table. The adjustments to ending carrying value, investment income and investment gains (losses) by invested asset class are presented below. Both the invested assets and long term debt of the CSEs are accounted for under the FVO. The adjustment to investment gains (losses) presented below and in footnote (6) to this yield table includes the effects of remeasuring both the invested assets and long term debt in accordance with the FVO. At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Impact of Excluding Total With all As Reported in the Trading and Other Trading and Other Yield Table Securities and CSEs Securities and CSEs (In millions) Trading and Other Securities (included within Fixed Maturity Securities): Ending carrying value $ 594 $ 17,995 $ 18,589 Investment income $ 234 $ 226 $ 460 Investment gains (losses) $ $ (30 ) $ (30 ) Mortgage Loans: Ending carrying value $ 55,536 $ 6,840 $ 62,376 Investment income $ 2,823 $ 396 $ 3,219 Investment gains (losses) $ 22 $ 36 $ 58 Cash and Short Term Investments: Ending carrying value $ 22,394 $ 39 $ 22,433 Total Investments: Ending carrying value $ 451,204 $ 24,874 $ 476,078 125 Table of Contents (4) Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees. (5) Other invested assets are principally comprised of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged leases. Freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair values are included within other liabilities. However, the accruals of settlement payments in other liabilities are included in net investment income as shown in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As yield is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for other invested assets, it has been excluded from the yield table. (6) Investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses) and derivative gains (losses) presented in this yield table vary from the most directly comparable measures presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of operations due to certain reclassifications affecting net investment income, net investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), and interest credited to PABs and to exclude the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. Such reclassifications are presented in the tables below. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Investment income in the above yield table $ 17,321 $ 15,089 $ 16,200 Real estate discontinued operations deduct from net investment income 10 (8 ) (11 ) Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting deduct from net investment income, add to net derivative gains (losses) (208 ) (88 ) (5 ) Equity method operating joint ventures add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses) (130 ) (156 ) 105 Net investment income on contractholder directed unit linked investments reported within trading and other securities add to net investment income 211 Incremental net investment income from CSEs add to net investment income 411 Net investment income GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ 17,615 $ 14,837 $ 16,289 Investment portfolio gains (losses) in the above yield table $ (193 ) $ (3,042 ) $ (2,175 ) Real estate discontinued operations deduct from net investment gains (losses) (14 ) (8 ) (8 ) Investment gains (losses) related to CSEs add to net investment gains (losses) 6 Purchased credit default swaps that offset losses incurred on certain fixed maturity securities deduct from net investment gains (losses) (183 ) Other gains (losses) add to net investment gains (losses) (191 ) 144 268 Net investment gains (losses) GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ (392 ) $ (2,906 ) $ (2,098 ) Derivative gains (losses) in the above yield table $ (614 ) $ (5,106 ) $ 3,782 Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from net investment income 208 88 5 Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from interest credited to PABs 11 (4 ) 45 Purchased credit default swaps that offset losses incurred on certain fixed maturity securities add to net derivative gains (losses) 183 Equity method operating joint ventures add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses) 130 156 (105 ) Net derivative gains (losses) GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ (265 ) $ (4,866 ) $ 3,910 126 Table of Contents See Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2008, for an analysis of the year over year changes in net investment income and net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Fixed maturity securities, which consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities, were $327.3 billion and $227.6 billion, or 69% and 67% of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Publicly traded fixed maturity securities represented $286.5 billion and $191.4 billion, or 88% and 84% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Privately placed fixed maturity securities represented $40.8 billion and $36.2 billion, or 12% and 16% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Equity securities, which consisted principally of publicly traded and privately held common and preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund interests, were $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion, or 0.8% and 0.9% of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Publicly traded equity securities represented $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion, or 64% and 68% of total equity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Privately held equity securities represented $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion, or 36% and 32% of total equity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Valuation of Securities. We are responsible for the determination of estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of publicly traded fixed maturity, equity and trading and other securities, as well as short term securities is determined by management after considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations. The number of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on inputs that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market. The market standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or similar techniques. The assumptions and inputs in applying these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration, and managements assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated future cash flows. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management will value the security primarily using independent non binding broker quotations. Independent non binding broker quotations utilize inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable market prices and market based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that judgmental valuation adjustments, if any, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and ensure that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through various controls designed to ensure that the financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued and represent an exit price. The control systems and procedures include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to managements knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity and ongoing confirmation that independent pricing services use, wherever possible, market based parameters for valuation. We determine the observability of inputs used in 127 Table of Contents estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. The Company also follows a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from independent pricing services are not reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek independent non binding broker quotes or use an internally developed valuation to override these prices. Such overrides are classified as Level 3. Despite the credit events prevalent since the second half of 2007 described above, including market dislocation, volatility in valuation of certain investments, and reduced levels of liquidity, which has since moderated but is still present in certain portions of the global financial markets and in certain asset sectors, our internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our estimates of liquidity and non performance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. Our estimates of liquidity and non performance risks are generally based on available market evidence and on what other market participants would use. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. As a result, we generally continued to use the price provided by the independent pricing service under our normal pricing protocol and pricing overrides were not material. The Company uses the results of this analysis for classifying the estimated fair value of these instruments in Level 1, 2 or 3. For example, we will review the estimated fair values received to determine whether corroborating evidence (i.e., similar observable positions and actual trades) will support a Level 2 classification in the fair value hierarchy. Security prices which cannot be corroborated due to relatively less pricing transparency and diminished liquidity will be classified as Level 3. Even some of our very high quality invested assets have been more illiquid for periods of time as a result of the market conditions described above. For privately placed fixed maturity securities, the Company determines the estimated fair value generally through matrix pricing, discounted cash flow techniques or from independent pricing services after assessing that the observability of inputs used can be corroborated with observable market data. The discounted cash flow valuations rely upon the estimated future cash flows of the security, credit spreads of comparable public securities and secondary transactions, as well as taking into account, among other factors, the credit quality of the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with privately placed debt securities. The Company has reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analyses, each instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation methodologies. Certain U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities, certain foreign government fixed maturity securities, residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS), principally to be announced securities, exchange traded common stock and mutual fund interests, registered mutual fund interests priced using daily net asset value provided by fund managers included within trading and other securities, certain other securities classified as trading and other securities which are similar to the above described fixed maturity and equity securities and certain short term money market securities, including U.S. Treasury bills, have been classified into Level 1 because of high volumes of trading activity and narrow bid/ask spreads. Most securities valued by independent pricing services have been classified into Level 2 because the significant inputs used in pricing these securities are market observable or can be corroborated using market observable information. Most investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and certain below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services that use observable inputs have been classified within Level 2. Distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities have been classified within Level 3. Below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and less liquid securities with very limited trading activity where estimated fair values are determined by independent pricing services or by independent non binding broker quotations that use unobservable inputs or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, are classified as Level 3. Use of independent non binding broker quotations generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or the general lack of transparency in the process to develop these price estimates causing them to be considered Level 3. Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted accounting guidance that clarified existing guidance regarding (1) estimating the estimated fair value of an asset or liability if there was a significant decrease in the volume and level of trading activity for these assets or liabilities and (2) identifying transactions that are not orderly. The 128 Table of Contents Companys valuation policies as described above and in Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Estimated Fair Values of Investments already incorporated the key concepts from this additional guidance, accordingly, this guidance results in no material changes in our valuation policies. At April 1, 2009 and at each subsequent quarterly period in 2009 and 2010, we evaluated the markets that our fixed maturity and equity securities trade in and in our judgment, despite the increased illiquidity discussed above, believe none of these fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets should be characterized as distressed and disorderly. We will continue to re evaluate and monitor such fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets on an ongoing basis. Fair Value Hierarchy. Fixed maturity securities and equity securities available for sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources and fair value hierarchy are as follows: December 31, 2010 Fixed Maturity Equity Securities Securities (In millions) Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets $ 15,025 4.6 % $ 832 23.1 % Level 2: Independent pricing source 257,625 78.7 616 17.1 Internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques 31,839 9.8 985 27.3 Significant other observable inputs 289,464 88.5 1,601 44.4 Level 3: Independent pricing source 10,481 3.2 1,011 28.0 Internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques 9,872 3.0 149 4.1 Independent broker quotations 2,442 0.7 13 0.4 Significant unobservable inputs 22,795 6.9 1,173 32.5 Total estimated fair value $ 327,284 100.0 % $ 3,606 100.0 % 129 Table of Contents December 31, 2010 Fair Value Measurements Using Quoted Prices Significant in Active Other Significant Markets for Observable Unobservable Total Identical Assets Inputs Inputs Estimated (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Fair Value (In millions) Fixed Maturity Securities: U.S. corporate securities $ $ 85,419 $ 7,149 $ 92,568 Foreign corporate securities 62,401 5,777 68,178 Residential mortgage backed securities 274 43,037 1,422 44,733 Foreign government securities 149 40,092 3,159 43,400 U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities 14,602 18,623 79 33,304 Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) 19,664 1,011 20,675 Asset backed securities 10,142 4,148 14,290 State and political subdivision securities 10,083 46 10,129 Other fixed maturity securities 3 4 7 Total fixed maturity securities $ 15,025 $ 289,464 $ 22,795 $ 327,284 Equity Securities: Common stock $ 832 $ 1,094 $ 268 $ 2,194 Non redeemable preferred stock 507 905 1,412 Total equity securities $ 832 $ 1,601 $ 1,173 $ 3,606 The composition of fair value pricing sources for and significant changes in Level 3 securities at December 31, 2010 are as follows: The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity securities (84%, as presented above) were concentrated in four sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities, ABS and foreign government securities. Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally through market standard valuation methodologies, independent pricing services and independent non binding broker quotations using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity securities consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including alternative residential mortgage loan RMBS and less liquid prime RMBS, certain below investment grade private placements and less liquid investment grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities) and less liquid ABS including securities supported by sub prime mortgage loans (included in ABS). During the year ended December 31, 2010, Level 3 fixed maturity securities increased by $371 million, or 2%, excluding the impact of the Acquisition, and $5,605 million, or 33%, including the impact of the Acquisition. The Level 3 fixed maturity securities acquired from ALICO of $5,435 million have been included in purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the table below. The increase was driven by net purchases in excess of sales and increases in estimated fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). Net purchases in excess of sales of fixed maturity securities were concentrated in foreign government and ABS. The increase in estimated fair value in fixed maturity securities was concentrated in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and ABS (including RMBS backed by sub prime mortgage loans) due to improving or stabilizing market conditions including an improvement in liquidity coupled with the effect of decreased interest rates on such securities. 130 Table of Contents A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity securities and equity securities available for sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fixed Maturity Equity Securities Securities (In millions) Balance, beginning of year $ 17,190 $ 1,240 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (39 ) 51 Other comprehensive income (loss) 1,072 19 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (1) 4,519 (122 ) Transfers into and or out of Level 3 53 (15 ) Balance, end of year $ 22,795 $ 1,173 (1) Includes securities acquired from ALICO of $5,435 million for fixed maturity securities and $68 million for equity securities. An analysis of transfers into and or out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2010 is as follows: Total gains and losses in earnings and other comprehensive income (loss) are calculated assuming transfers in or out of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items transferred in and out for the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Total gains and losses for fixed maturity securities included in earnings of ($2) million and other comprehensive income (loss) of $19 million respectively, were incurred for transfers subsequent to their transfer to Level 3, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net transfers into and or out of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities were $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and were comprised of transfers in of $1,736 million and transfers out of ($1,683) million, respectively. Overall, transfers into and or out of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the observability of inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming observable. Transfers into and or out of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the period. Significant transfers in and or out of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2010 are summarized below. During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities transfers into Level 3 of $1,736 million resulted primarily from current market conditions characterized by a lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade). These current market conditions have resulted in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and unobservable inputs to determine estimated fair value principally for certain private placements included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and certain CMBS. During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities transfers out of Level 3 of ($1,683) million resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new issuances that subsequent to issuance and establishment of trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to corroborate pricing received from independent pricing services with observable inputs, or there were increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings primarily for certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS and ABS. 131 Table of Contents See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Estimated Fair Value of Investments for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. See Fair Value Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Recurring Fair Value Measurements Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the Three Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities in Note 5 for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality Ratings. The Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called NAIC designations. If no rating is available from the NAIC, then as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC ratings are generally similar to the credit quality designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations (NRSROs) for marketable fixed maturity securities, called rating agency designations, except for certain structured securities as described below. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include fixed maturity securities generally considered investment grade (i.e., rated Baa3 or better by Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) or rated BBB or better by SP and Fitch Ratings (Fitch)) by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include fixed maturity securities generally considered below investment grade (i.e., rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys or rated BB+ or lower by SP and Fitch) by such rating organizations. The NAIC adopted revised rating methodologies for non agency RMBS, including RMBS backed by sub prime mortgage loans reported within ABS, that became effective December 31, 2009 and for CMBS and all other ABS that became effective December 31, 2010. The NAICs objective with the revised rating methodologies for these structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital requirement for such structured securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from such structured securities. The three tables below present fixed maturity securities based on rating agency designations and equivalent designations of the NAIC, with the exception of certain structured securities held by the Companys insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC statutory financial statements. Non agency RMBS, including RMBS backed by sub prime mortgage loans reported within ABS, CMBS and all other ABS held by the Companys insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC statutory financial statements are presented based on final ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies described above (which may not correspond to rating agency designations). All NAIC designation (e.g., NAIC 1) amounts and percentages presented herein are based on the revised NAIC methodologies described above. All rating agency designation (e.g., Aaa/AAA) amounts and percentages presented herein are based on rating agency designations without adjustment for the revised NAIC methodologies described above. The following three tables present information about the Companys fixed maturity securities holdings by NAIC credit quality ratings. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC. Rating agency designations are based on availability of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC acceptable rating organizations list, including Moodys, SP, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used. 132 Table of Contents The following table presents the Companys total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented using final ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: December 31, 2010 2009 Estimated Estimated NAIC Amortized Fair % of Amortized Fair % of Rating Rating Agency Designation: Cost Value Total Cost Value Total (In millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 228,875 $ 233,540 71.4 % $ 151,391 $ 151,136 66.4 % 2 Baa 65,550 68,858 21.0 55,508 56,305 24.7 3 Ba 15,335 15,294 4.7 13,184 12,003 5.3 4 B 8,752 8,316 2.5 7,474 6,461 2.9 5 Caa and lower 1,343 1,146 0.4 1,809 1,425 0.6 6 In or near default 153 130 343 312 0.1 Total fixed maturity securities $ 320,008 $ 327,284 100.0 % $ 229,709 $ 227,642 100.0 % The following tables present the Companys total fixed maturity securities, based on estimated fair value, by sector classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, that each designation is comprised of at December 31, 2010 and 2009: Fixed Maturity Securities by Sector Credit Quality Rating at December 31, 2010 NAIC Rating 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total Caa and In or Near Estimated Rating Agency Designation: Aaa/Aa/A Baa Ba B Lower Default Fair Value (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 46,754 $ 34,326 $ 7,635 $ 3,460 $ 353 $ 40 $ 92,568 Foreign corporate securities 39,652 24,414 2,476 1,454 173 9 68,178 RMBS (1) 38,984 1,109 2,271 1,993 331 45 44,733 Foreign government securities 32,957 7,184 2,179 1,080 43,400 U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities 33,304 33,304 CMBS (1) 19,385 665 363 205 56 1 20,675 ABS (1) 13,136 435 338 120 226 35 14,290 State and political subdivision securities 9,368 722 32 7 10,129 Other fixed maturity securities 3 4 7 Total fixed maturity securities $ 233,540 $ 68,858 $ 15,294 $ 8,316 $ 1,146 $ 130 $ 327,284 Percentage of total 71.4 % 21.0 % 4.7 % 2.5 % 0.4 % % 100.0 % 133 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities by Sector Credit Quality Rating at December 31, 2009 NAIC Rating 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total Caa and In or Near Estimated Rating Agency Designation: Aaa/Aa/A Baa Ba B Lower Default Fair Value (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 31,848 $ 30,266 $ 6,319 $ 2,965 $ 616 $ 173 $ 72,187 Foreign corporate securities 16,678 17,393 2,067 1,530 281 81 38,030 RMBS (1) 38,464 1,563 2,260 1,391 339 3 44,020 Foreign government securities 5,786 4,841 890 415 15 11,947 U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities 25,447 25,447 CMBS 15,000 434 152 22 14 15,622 ABS 11,573 1,033 275 124 117 40 13,162 State and political subdivision securities 6,337 765 40 8 58 7,208 Other fixed maturity securities 3 10 6 19 Total fixed maturity securities $ 151,136 $ 56,305 $ 12,003 $ 6,461 $ 1,425 $ 312 $ 227,642 Percentage of total 66.4 % 24.7 % 5.3 % 2.9 % 0.6 % 0.1 % 100.0 % (1) Presented using the final rating from revised NAIC rating methodologies. Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables summarizing the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, including noncredit loss component of OTTI loss, and estimated fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities on a sector basis, and selected information about certain fixed maturity securities held by the Company that were below investment grade or non rated, non income producing, credit enhanced by financial guarantor insurers by sector, and the ratings of the financial guarantor insurers providing the credit enhancement at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity Securities). The Company was not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities portfolio of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Companys equity, or 1% of total investments, at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) Summary. See Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the concentrations of credit risk related to fixed maturity securities holdings. Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities. The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total investments. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) U.S. and Foreign Corporate Securities in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that present the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed maturity securities holdings, the largest exposure to a single issuer and the combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it had the largest exposure at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 134 Table of Contents Structured Securities. The following table presents the types of structured securities and portion rated Aaa/AAA and portion rated NAIC 1 at: December 31, 2010 2009 Estimated Estimated Fair % of Fair % of Value Total Value Total (In millions) RMBS $ 44,733 56.1 % $ 44,020 60.5 % CMBS 20,675 26.0 15,622 21.4 ABS 14,290 17.9 13,162 18.1 Total structured securities $ 79,698 100.0 % $ 72,804 100.0 % Ratings profile: RMBS rated Aaa/AAA $ 36,085 80.7 % $ 35,626 80.9 % RMBS rated NAIC 1 $ 38,984 87.1 % $ 38,464 87.4 % CMBS rated Aaa/AAA $ 16,901 81.7 % $ 13,355 85.5 % CMBS rated NAIC 1 $ 19,385 93.7 % $ 15,000 96.0 % ABS rated Aaa/AAA $ 10,411 72.9 % $ 9,354 71.1 % ABS rated NAIC 1 $ 13,136 91.9 % $ 11,573 87.9 % RMBS. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) RMBS in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that present the Companys RMBS holdings by security type and risk profile at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The majority of RMBS held by the Company was rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, SP or Fitch; and the majority was rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2010 and 2009, as presented above. The majority of the agency RMBS held by the Company was guaranteed or otherwise supported by FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA. Non agency RMBS includes prime and alternative residential mortgage loans (Alt A) RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub prime. Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within Alt A RMBS are resecuritization of real estate mortgage investment conduit (Re REMIC) securities. Re REMIC Alt A RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of Alt A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the resecuritization. The Companys holdings are in senior tranches with significant credit enhancement. The Companys Alt A securities portfolio has superior structure to the overall Alt A market. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys Alt A securities portfolio has no exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. The Companys Alt A securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate mortgages which have performed better than both option ARMs and hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt A market. Additionally, 85% and 90% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of the Companys Alt A securities portfolio has super senior credit enhancement, which typically provides double the credit enhancement of a standard Aaa/AAA rated fixed maturity security. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) RMBS in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the estimated fair value of Alt A securities held by the Company by vintage year, net unrealized loss, portion of holdings rated Aa/AA or better by Moodys, SP or Fitch, portion rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC, and portion of holdings that are backed by fixed rate collateral or hybrid ARM collateral at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Companys holdings of Re REMIC Alt A RMBS reported within Alt A RMBS were all rated NAIC 1 and were $703 million and $782 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 135 Table of Contents RMBS in which the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment policy. Based upon the analysis of the Companys exposure to RMBS, including Alt A RMBS, the Company expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the securities that are considered temporarily impaired. CMBS. There have been disruptions in the CMBS market due to market perceptions that default rates will increase in part as a result of weakness in commercial real estate market fundamentals and in part to relaxed underwriting standards by some originators of commercial mortgage loans within the more recent vintage years (i.e., 2006 and later). These factors caused a pull back in market liquidity, increased credit spreads and repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels of unrealized losses as compared to historical levels through the first quarter of 2010. However, in the second quarter of 2010, market conditions continued to improve and interest rates continue to decrease, causing our portfolio to be in a net unrealized gain position of 2% of amortized cost at December 31, 2010. CMBS in which the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment policy. Based upon the analysis of the Companys exposure to CMBS, the Company expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the securities that are considered temporarily impaired. The Companys holdings in CMBS were $20.7 billion and $15.6 billion, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) CMBS in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present the amortized cost and estimated fair value, rating agency designation by Moodys, SP, Fitch or Realpoint, LLC and holdings by vintage year of such securities held by the Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company had no exposure to CMBS index securities at December 31, 2010 or 2009. The Companys holdings of commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations securities were $138 million and $111 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average credit enhancement of the Companys CMBS holdings was 26% and 28% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This credit enhancement percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of outstanding capital structure subordinated to the Companys investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar of loss of principal. The credit protection does not include any equity interest or property value in excess of outstanding debt. ABS. The Companys ABS are diversified both by collateral type and by issuer. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) ABS in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys ABS by collateral type, portion rated Aaa/AAA, portion rated NAIC 1, and portion credit enhanced held by the Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable mortgage products and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub prime mortgage loans have recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates, especially within the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. These factors have caused a pull back in market liquidity and repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels of unrealized losses on securities backed by sub prime mortgage loans as compared to historical levels. However, in 2010, market conditions improved, credit spreads narrowed on mortgage backed and asset backed securities and net unrealized losses on ABS backed by sub prime mortgage loans decreased from 36% to 22% of amortized cost from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. ABS in which the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment policy. Based upon the analysis of the Companys ABS, including sub prime mortgage loans through its exposure to ABS, the Company expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the securities that are considered temporarily impaired. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities) ABS in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present the Companys holdings of ABS supported by sub prime mortgage loans by rating agency designation and by vintage year and by NAIC rating at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 136 Table of Contents The Company had ABS supported by sub prime mortgage loans with estimated fair values of $1,119 million and $1,044 million and unrealized losses of $317 million and $593 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 54% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 88% was in vintage year 2005 and prior at December 31, 2010. Approximately 61% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 91% was in vintage year 2005 and prior at December 31, 2009. These older vintages from 2005 and prior benefit from better underwriting, improved enhancement levels and higher residential property price appreciation. All of the $1,119 million and $1,044 million of ABS supported by sub prime mortgage loans were classified as Level 3 fixed maturity securities in the fair value hierarchy at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. ABS also include collateralized debt obligations backed by sub prime mortgage loans at an aggregate cost of $18 million with an estimated fair value of $17 million at December 31, 2010 and an aggregate cost of $22 million with an estimated fair value of $8 million at December 31, 2009. Evaluating Available for Sale Securities for Other Than Temporary Impairment See Investments Evaluating Available for Sale Securities for Other Than Temporary Impairment in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the regular evaluation of available for sale securities holdings in accordance with our impairment policy, whereby we evaluate whether such investments are other than temporarily impaired, new OTTI guidance adopted in 2009 and factors considered by security classification in the regular OTTI evaluation. See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) See Investments Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and the changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of ($601) million at December 31, 2010, includes ($859) million recognized prior to January 1, 2010, ($212) million (($202) million, net of DAC) of noncredit OTTI losses recognized in the year ended December 31, 2010, $16 million transferred to retained earnings in connection with the adoption of guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs (see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) for the year ended December 31, 2010, $137 million related to securities sold for the year ended December 31, 2010, for which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and $317 million of subsequent increases in estimated fair value during the year ended December 31, 2010, on such securities for which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of ($859) million at December 31, 2009, includes ($126) million related to the transition adjustment recorded in 2009 upon the adoption of guidance on the recognition and presentation of OTTI, ($939) million (($857) million, net of DAC) of noncredit OTTI losses recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009 (as more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), $20 million related to securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2009 for which a noncredit loss was previously recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and $186 million of subsequent increases in estimated fair value during the year ended December 31, 2009 on such securities for which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale See Investments Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that present the 137 Table of Contents cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized loss, including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2010, gross unrealized loss as a percentage of cost or amortized cost and number of securities for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Concentration of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale See Investments Concentration of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that present the concentration by sector and industry of the Companys gross unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity securities, including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss of $6.9 billion and $10.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Available for Sale Securities See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Available for Sale Securities in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys fixed maturity and equity securities each with a gross unrealized loss of greater than $10 million, the number of securities, total gross unrealized loss and percentage of total gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss greater than $10 million, decreased $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2010. The cause of the decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily attributable to a decrease in interest rates and narrowing of credit spreads. These securities were included in the Companys OTTI review process. Based upon the Companys current evaluation of these securities in accordance with its impairment policy and the Companys current intentions and assessments (as applicable to the type of security) about holding, selling, and any requirements to sell these securities, the Company has concluded that these securities are not other than temporarily impaired. In the Companys impairment review process, the duration and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity securities is given greater weight and consideration than for fixed maturity securities. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments and the Companys evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security, greater weight and consideration is given by the Company to a decline in market value and the likelihood such market value decline will recover. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Available for Sale Securities in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents certain information about the Companys equity securities available for sale with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more at December 31, 2010. In connection with the equity securities impairment review process at December 31, 2010, the Company evaluated its holdings in non redeemable preferred stock, particularly those of financial services companies. The Company considered several factors including whether there has been any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of non redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended unrealized loss. The Company also considered whether any non redeemable preferred stock with an unrealized loss held by the Company, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend payments. No such dividend payments had been deferred. 138 Table of Contents With respect to common stock holdings, the Company considered the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more and the duration of unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized loss position of less than 20% in an extended unrealized loss position (i.e., for 12 months or greater). Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit rating, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals and any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTI may be incurred in upcoming quarters. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Including OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on the recognition and presentation of OTTI that amends the methodology to determine for fixed maturity securities whether an OTTI exists, and for certain fixed maturity securities, changes how OTTI losses that are charged to earnings are measured. There was no change in the methodology for identification and measurement of OTTI losses charged to earnings for impaired equity securities. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Net Investment Gains (Losses) in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings. Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $484 million, $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments of fixed maturity securities were $470 million, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments of equity securities were $14 million, $400 million and $430 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys credit related impairments of fixed maturity securities were $423 million, $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys three largest impairments totaled $105 million, $508 million and $528 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company records OTTI losses charged to earnings within net investment gains (losses) and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. The Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity securities at a loss that had an estimated fair value of $18.2 billion, $10.2 billion and $29.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed maturity and equity securities were $628 million, $1.2 billion and $1.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities impairments are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were $484 million for the current year as compared to $1.9 billion in the prior year. Improving or stabilizing market conditions across all sectors and industries, particularly the financial services industry, as compared to the prior year when there was significant stress in the global financial markets, resulted in a higher level of impairments in fixed maturity and equity securities in the prior year. The most significant decrease in the current year, as compared to the prior year, was in the Companys financial services industry holdings which comprised $799 million in fixed maturity and equity security impairments in the prior year, as compared to $129 million in impairments in the current year. Of the $799 million in financial services industry impairments in the year, $340 million were in equity securities, of which $310 million were in financial services industry perpetual hybrid securities which were impaired as a result of deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized loss position on these securities. Impairments 139 Table of Contents in the current year were concentrated in the RMBS, ABS and CMBS sectors reflecting current economic conditions including higher unemployment levels and continued weakness within the real estate markets. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of $484 million and $1,900 million in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, $287 million and $449 million, or 59% and 24% respectively, were in the Companys RMBS, ABS and CMBS holdings. Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $1.7 billion in the prior year. The stress in the global financial markets that caused a significant increase in impairments in 2008 as compared to 2007, continued into 2009. Significant impairments were incurred in several industry sectors in 2009, including the financial services industry, but to a lesser degree in the financial services industry sector than in 2008. In 2008 certain financial institutions entered bankruptcy, entered FDIC receivership or received significant government capital infusions causing 2008 financial services industry impairments to be higher than in 2009. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of $1,900 million in 2009, $799 million were concentrated in the Companys financial services industry holdings and were comprised of $459 million in impairments on fixed maturity securities and $340 million in impairments on equity securities, and the $799 million included $623 million of perpetual hybrid securities, which were comprised of $313 million on securities classified as fixed maturity securities and $310 million on securities classified as non redeemable preferred stock. Overall impairments in 2009 were higher due to increased fixed maturity security impairments across several industry sectors, which more than offset a reduction in impairments in the financial services industry sector. Impairments across these several industry sectors increased in 2009 due to increased financial restructurings, bankruptcy filings, ratings downgrades, collateral deterioration or difficult operating environments of the issuers as a result of the challenging economic environment. Impairments on perpetual hybrid securities in 2009 were a result of deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized loss position. See Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Net Investment Gains (Losses) in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and by industry within the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sector for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively; and equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and industry for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Future Impairments. Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance, changes in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals and other of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods. See also Investments Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses). Credit Loss Rollforward Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) See Investments Credit Loss Rollforward Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the table that presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities still held by the Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009 for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 140 Table of Contents Securities Lending The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company generally obtains collateral, generally cash, in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company is liable to return to its counterparties the cash collateral under its control. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated liability recorded at the amount of the cash received. See Investments Securities Lending in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys securities lending program. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2010 was $2,699 million, of which $2,317 million were U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan were primarily U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities, and very liquid RMBS. The U.S. Treasury securities on loan are primarily holdings of on the run U.S. Treasury securities, the most liquid U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high quality securities that are on loan are put back to the Company, the proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used to satisfy the related cash requirements. The reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash collateral consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including RMBS, U.S. corporate, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed, and ABS). If the on loan securities or the reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, the Company has the liquidity resources of most of its general account available to meet any potential cash demands when securities are put back to the Company. Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Separately, the Company had $49 million and $46 million, at estimated fair value, of cash and security collateral on deposit from a counterparty to secure its interest in a pooled investment that is held by a third party trustee, as custodian, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This pooled investment is included within fixed maturity securities and had an estimated fair value of $49 million and $51 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral See Investments Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of the invested assets on deposit, invested assets held in trust and invested assets pledged as collateral at December 31, 2010 and 2009. See also Investments Securities Lending for the amount of the Companys cash and invested assets received from and due back to counterparties pursuant to its securities lending program. Trading and Other Securities The Company has a trading securities portfolio, principally invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities (Actively Traded Securities) and the execution of short sale agreements. Trading and other securities also include securities for which the FVO has been elected (FVO Securities). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity and equity securities held for investment by the general account to support asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also include contractholder directed investments supporting unit linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds, and to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to PABs. Changes in 141 Table of Contents estimated fair value of such trading and other securities subsequent to purchase are included in net investment income. FVO Securities also include securities held by CSEs (former qualifying special purpose entities) with changes in estimated fair value subsequent to consolidation included in net investment gains (losses). Trading and other securities were $18.6 billion and $2.4 billion, or 3.9% and 0.7% of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The significant increase in trading and other securities in 2010 was driven primarily by inclusion of ALICOs contractholder directed unit linked investments, and to a lesser extent, growth in this book of business that occurred during the ten month period ended October 31, 2010 prior to the Acquisition. See Investments Trading and Other Securities in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables which present information about the Actively Traded Securities and FVO Securities, related short sale agreement liabilities, investments pledged to secure short sale agreement liabilities, net investment income, changes in estimated fair value included in net investment income for trading and other securities and changes in estimated fair value included in net investment gains (losses) for FVO Securities held by CSEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Trading and other securities and trading (short sale agreement) liabilities, measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2010 Trading and Other Securities Trading Liabilities (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ 6,270 33.7 % $ 46 100.0 % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) (1) 11,497 61.9 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 822 4.4 Total estimated fair value $ 18,589 100.0 % $ 46 100.0 % (1) All FVO Securities held by CSEs are classified as Level 2. A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading and other securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2010, is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions) Balance, at January 1, $ 83 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (7 ) Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (1) 727 Transfer in and or out of Level 3 19 Balance, at December 31, $ 822 (1) Includes securities acquired from ALICO of $582 million. See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. Mortgage Loans The Companys mortgage loans are principally collateralized by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and residential properties. The carrying value of mortgage loans was $62.4 billion and $50.9 billion, or 13.1% and 15.1% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Investments Mortgage Loans in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys mortgage loans held for investment of $59.1 billion and $48.2 billion by portfolio segment at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as well as the components of the mortgage loans held for sale of $3.3 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The information presented on Mortgage 142 Table of Contents Loans herein excludes the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. Such amounts are presented in the aforementioned table. See Investments Mortgage Loans in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property Type. Commercial mortgage loans are the most significant component of the mortgage loan invested asset class as it represents 72% of total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs) at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration. Additionally, the Company manages risk, when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, by generally lending only up to 75% of the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate. The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans at: December 31, 2010 2009 % of % of Amount Total Amount Total (In millions) Region: Pacific $ 8,974 23.7 % $ 8,822 25.1 % South Atlantic 8,016 21.2 7,460 21.2 Middle Atlantic 6,484 17.1 6,042 17.2 International 4,216 11.2 3,620 10.3 West South Central 3,266 8.6 2,916 8.3 East North Central 3,066 8.1 2,531 7.2 New England 1,531 4.1 1,448 4.1 Mountain 884 2.3 959 2.7 West North Central 666 1.8 675 1.9 East South Central 461 1.2 449 1.3 Other 256 0.7 254 0.7 Total recorded investment 37,820 100.0 % 35,176 100.0 % Less valuation allowances 562 589 Carrying value, net of valuation allowances $ 37,258 $ 34,587 Property Type: Office $ 16,857 44.6 % $ 15,205 43.2 % Retail 9,215 24.3 7,964 22.6 Apartments 3,630 9.6 3,731 10.6 Hotel 3,089 8.2 3,117 8.9 Industrial 2,910 7.7 2,797 8.0 Other 2,119 5.6 2,362 6.7 Total recorded investment 37,820 100.0 % 35,176 100.0 % Less valuation allowances 562 589 Carrying value, net of valuation allowances $ 37,258 $ 34,587 Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. 143 Table of Contents The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent in the near term. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans consistent with industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial mortgage loans 60 days past due; agricultural mortgage loans 90 days past due; and residential mortgage loans 60 days past due. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The following table presents the recorded investment and valuation allowance for all mortgage loans held for investment distributed by the above stated loan classifications at: December 31, 2010 2009 % of % of Recorded % of Valuation Recorded Recorded % of Valuation Recorded Investment Total Allowance Investment Investment Total Allowance Investment (In millions) Commercial: Performing $ 37,489 99.1 % $ 528 1.4 % $ 35,066 99.7 % $ 548 1.6 % Restructured 93 0.2 6 6.5 % % Potentially delinquent 180 0.5 28 15.6 % 102 0.3 41 40.2 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 58 0.2 % 8 % Total $ 37,820 100.0 % $ 562 1.5 % $ 35,176 100.0 % $ 589 1.7 % Agricultural (1): Performing $ 12,486 97.9 % $ 35 0.3 % $ 11,950 97.5 % $ 33 0.3 % Restructured 33 0.3 8 24.2 % 36 0.3 10 27.8 % Potentially delinquent 62 0.5 11 17.7 % 128 1.0 34 26.6 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 170 1.3 34 20.0 % 141 1.2 38 27.0 % Total $ 12,751 100.0 % $ 88 0.7 % $ 12,255 100.0 % $ 115 0.9 % Residential (2): Performing $ 2,221 96.2 % $ 12 0.5 % $ 1,389 94.4 % $ 16 1.2 % Restructured 4 0.2 % 1 0.1 % Potentially delinquent 4 0.2 % 10 0.7 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 79 3.4 2 2.5 % 71 4.8 1 1.4 % Total $ 2,308 100.0 % $ 14 0.6 % $ 1,471 100.0 % $ 17 1.2 % (1) Of the $12.8 billion of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2010, 53% were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these mortgage loans have been successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to maturity. (2) Residential mortgage loans held for investment consist primarily of first lien residential mortgage loans, and to a much lesser extent, second lien residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. See Investments Mortgage Loans in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present, by portfolio segment, mortgage loans by credit quality indicator and impaired loans, as well as information on past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans for the year ended December 31, 2010. Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Monitoring Process Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company reviews all commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant 144 Table of Contents creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan to value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, such as loans with higher loan to value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and property type basis. Loan to value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans. Loan to value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of agricultural mortgage loans. Loan to value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan to value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A loan to value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. For commercial mortgage loans, the average loan to value ratio was 66% and 68% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the average debt service coverage ratio was 2.4x, as compared to 2.2x at December 31, 2009. For agricultural mortgage loans, the average loan to value ratio was 49% at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The values utilized in calculating these ratios are developed in connection with our review of the commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, and are updated routinely, including a periodic quality rating process and an evaluation of the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Monitoring Process Residential Mortgage Loans. The Company has a conservative residential mortgage loan portfolio and does not hold any option ARMs, sub prime or low teaser rate. Higher risk loans include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan to value ratios and interest only loans. The Companys investment in residential junior lien loans and residential mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio of 80% or more was $95 million and $76 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the majority of the higher loan to value residential mortgage loans have mortgage insurance coverage which reduces the loan to value ratio to less than 80%. Additionally, the Companys investment in traditional residential interest only mortgage loans was $389 million and $323 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses. The Company records additions to and decreases in its valuation allowances and gains and losses from the sale of loans in net investment gains (losses). The Company records valuation allowances for loans considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate; (ii) the estimated fair value of the loans underlying collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent; or (iii) the loans observable market price. The Company also establishes valuation allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, loan to value ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook, as well as, other relevant factors. The determination of the amount of, and additions or decreases to, valuation allowances is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with its loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon several factors, including the Companys experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations 145 Table of Contents regularly, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem loans will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit migration including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance. Such changes in the valuation allowance are recorded in net investment gains (losses). See Investments Mortgage Loans in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the activity in the Companys valuation allowances, by portfolio segment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively; and for tables that present the Companys valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, by portfolio segment, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company held $197 million and $210 million in mortgage loans which are carried at estimated fair value based on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker quotations, if lower, of which $164 million and $202 million relate to impaired mortgage loans held for investment and $33 million and $8 million to certain mortgage loans held for sale, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These impaired mortgage loans were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value is categorized as Level 3. Included within net investment gains (losses) for such impaired mortgage loans were net impairments of $17 million and $93 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Subsequent improvements in estimated fair value on previously impaired loans recorded through a reduction in the previously established provision to the valuation allowance are reported as a (release) above. Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures The Company diversifies its real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of concentration. Of the Companys real estate investments, 88% are located in the U.S. with the remaining 12% located outside the U.S., at December 31, 2010. The carrying value of the Companys real estate investments was $8.0 billion, or 1.7%, and $6.9 billion, or 2.0%, of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Investments Real Estate in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present the Companys real estate investments by investment strategy and by property type at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Properties acquired through foreclosure were $165 million, $127 million and less than $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and includes commercial, agricultural and residential properties. After the Company acquires properties through foreclosure, it evaluates whether the property is appropriate for retention in its traditional real estate portfolio. Foreclosed real estate held at December 31, 2010 and 2009 includes those properties the Company has not selected for retention in its traditional real estate portfolio and which do not meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale. Impairments recognized on real estate held for investment were $48 million, $160 million and $20 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments recognized on real estate held for sale were $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. There were no impairments recognized on real estate held for sale for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Companys carrying value of real estate held for sale has been reduced by impairments recorded prior to 2009 of $1 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The carrying value of non income producing real estate was $137 million, $76 million and $28 million at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The impaired cost method basis real estate joint ventures were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a non recurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value was categorized as Level 3. Impairments to estimated fair value for such cost method basis real estate joint ventures of $25 million, $82 million, and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were recognized within net investment gains (losses) and are included in the $48 million, $160 million and $20 million of impairments on real estate investments held for investment for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The estimated fair value of the impaired cost method real estate joint ventures after these impairments was $8 million and $93 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 146 Table of Contents Other Limited Partnership Interests The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that principally make private equity investments in companies in the U.S. and overseas) was $6.4 billion and $5.5 billion, or 1.3% and 1.6% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included within other limited partnership interests were $1.0 billion, at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, of investments in hedge funds. Impairments on cost basis limited partnership interests are recognized at estimated fair value determined from information provided in the financial statements of the underlying other limited partnership interests in the period in which the impairment is recognized. Consistent with equity securities, greater weight and consideration is given in the other limited partnership interests impairment review process to the severity and duration of unrealized losses on such other limited partnership interests holdings. Impairments to estimated fair value for such other limited partnership interests of $12 million, $354 million and $105 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were recognized within net investment gains (losses). The estimated fair value of the impaired other limited partnership interests after these impairments was $23 million, $561 million and $137 million at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These impairments to estimated fair value represent non recurring fair value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. Other Invested Assets See Investments Other Invested Assets in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys other invested assets by type at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and related information. Short term Investments The carrying value of short term investments, which include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase was $9.4 billion and $8.4 billion, or 2.0% and 2.5% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to securities of the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies included within short term investments, which were $4.0 billion and $7.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash Equivalents The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes investments with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less, at the time of purchase was $9.6 billion and $8.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to securities of the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies included within cash equivalents, which were $5.8 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives. The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and equity market risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for: A comprehensive description of the nature of the Companys derivative instruments, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in managing various risks. Information about the notional amount, estimated fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of the Companys derivative financial instruments, excluding embedded derivatives held at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 147 Table of Contents Hedging. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about: The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives and non derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments by type of hedge designation at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives that are not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The statement of operations effects of derivatives in cash flow, fair value, or non qualifying hedge relationships for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Management of Market Risk Exposures Hedging Activities for more information about the Companys use of derivatives by major hedge program. Fair Value Hierarchy. Derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2010 Derivative Derivative Assets Liabilities (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ 156 2 % $ 45 1 % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) 7,176 92 4,245 93 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 445 6 272 6 Total estimated fair value $ 7,777 100 % $ 4,562 100 % The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3 inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and are assumed to be consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments, the use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income. Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31, 2010 include: interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; interest rate lock commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including pull through rates; equity variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker quotations; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and priced through independent broker quotations; interest rate swaps with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; credit default swaps based upon baskets of credits having unobservable credit correlations, as well as credit default swaps with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the credit curves and credit default swaps priced through independent broker quotes; foreign currency forwards priced via independent broker quotations or with liquidity adjustments; implied volatility swaps with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker quotations; equity options with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker quotations; currency options based upon baskets of currencies having unobservable currency correlations; and credit forwards having unobservable repurchase rates. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, 2.0% and 5.5%, respectively, of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced via independent broker quotations. 148 Table of Contents A rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2010 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions) Balance, at January 1, $ 356 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (5 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (81 ) Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (75 ) Transfer in and or out of Level 3 (22 ) Balance, at December 31, $ 173 See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Derivative Financial Instruments for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. Credit Risk. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how the Company manages credit risk related to its freestanding derivatives, including the use of master netting agreements and collateral arrangements. Credit Derivatives. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to the Companys written credit default swaps. Embedded Derivatives. The embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2010 Net Embedded Derivatives Within Asset Host Contracts Liability Host Contracts (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ % $ % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) 11 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 185 100 2,623 100 Total estimated fair value $ 185 100 % $ 2,634 100 % A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions) Balance, at January 1, $ (1,455 ) Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (335 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (226 ) Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (422 ) Transfer in and or out of Level 3 Balance, at December 31, $ (2,438 ) The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of ($96) million and ($1,932) million, respectively, in connection with this adjustment. These amounts are net of a loss of $955 million relating to a refinement for estimating nonperformance risk in fair value measurements implemented at June 30, 2010. See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. 149 Table of Contents See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Embedded Derivatives for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $3.8 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years. Mortgage Loan Commitments The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain residential mortgage loan applications totaling $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company intends to sell the majority of these originated residential mortgage loans. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will be held for sale are considered derivatives pursuant to the guidance on derivatives and hedging, and their estimated fair value and notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards. The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other mortgage loan commitments that will be held for investment in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $3.8 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $2.4 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, and bridge loans and private corporate bond investment arrangements. Lease Commitments The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology and other equipment. The Companys commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations. Credit Facilities, Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities, for further descriptions of such arrangements. Guarantees See Guarantees in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Collateral for Securities Lending The Company has no non cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. 150 Table of Contents Insolvency Assessments See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Policyholder Liabilities The Company establishes, and carries as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. Also see Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an analysis of certain policyholder liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future. However, we believe our actuarial liabilities for future benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities. The Company has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man made events such as terrorist attacks. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils. Future Policy Benefits The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of expected future benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of expected future net premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits include mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed and future losses are projected under loss recognition testing, then additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Insurance Products. Future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, long term care (LTC) policies, active life policies and premium stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under participating life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk, the Company has often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. The Company entered into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts. 151 Table of Contents Retirement Products. Future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for life contingent income annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life contingencies, liabilities for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDBs) included in certain annuity contracts, and a certain portion of guaranteed living benefits. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Corporate Benefit Funding. Liabilities are primarily related to structured settlement annuities. There is no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result. The Company has various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Auto Home. Future policy benefits include liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon the Companys historical experience and analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. International. Future policy benefits are held primarily for traditional life and accident and health contracts in Japan, Asia Pacific and immediate annuities in Latin America. They are also held for total return pass thru provisions included in certain universal life and savings products mainly in Japan and Latin America, and traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts sold in various countries in Asia Pacific. They also include certain liabilities for variable annuity guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees sold in Japan and Asia Pacific. Finally, in Europe and the Middle East, they also include unearned premium liabilities established for credit insurance contracts covering death, disability and involuntary loss of employment, as well as traditional life, accident and health and endowment contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, higher than expected lapse rates, asset default and more rapid improvement of mortality levels than anticipated for life contingent immediate annuities. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and through the development of periodic experience studies. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of prior year losses. Banking, Corporate Other. Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for quota share reinsurance agreements for certain LTC and workers compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (MICC), prior to its acquisition by MetLife, Inc. These are run off businesses that have been included within Banking, Corporate Other since the acquisition of MICC. Policyholder Account Balances Policyholder account balances are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred upon surrender. Insurance Products. Policyholder account balances are held for death benefit disbursement retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies, specialized life insurance products for benefit programs and general account universal life policies. Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate set by the Company, which are influenced by current market rates. The majority of the policyholder account balances have a guaranteed minimum credited rate between 0.5% and 6.0%. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees. The Company has various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Retirement Products. Policyholder account balances are held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed account portion of variable annuities, for certain income annuities, and for certain portions of guaranteed benefits. 152 Table of Contents Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate set by the Company. Credited rates for deferred annuities are influenced by current market rates, and most of these contracts have a minimum guaranteed rate between 1.0% and 4.0%. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Corporate Benefit Funding. Policyholder account balances are comprised of funding agreements. Interest crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index, most commonly 1 month or 3 month LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual maturity date. The Company may invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The Company also mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges, including cross currency swaps. International. Policyholder account balances are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans in Japan and Latin America and to a lesser degree, amounts for unit linked type funds in certain countries across all regions that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings products sold in certain countries in Japan and Asia Pacific that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Japan and Asia Pacific are established in accordance with derivatives and hedging guidance and are also included within policyholder account balances. These liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and by hedging its variable annuity guarantees. Liabilities for unit linked type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Variable Annuity Guarantees The Company issues certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. In some cases the benefit base may be increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or market value resets. These guarantees are accounted for as insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee is paid without requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable event, or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively, a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance liability if the guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the occurrence of a specific insurable event, or (ii) upon annuitization. In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both an insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in such cases the guarantee is accounted for under a split of the two models. The net amount at risk (NAR) for guarantees can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements represents managements estimate of the current value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all exercised simultaneously at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that limit the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near future. Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and included in policyholder account balances. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include GMAB, the non life contingent portion of GMWB and the portion of certain GMIB that do not require annuitization. For more detail on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 153 Table of Contents The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in policyholder account balances at: December 31, 2010 2009 (In millions) U.S. Business: Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit $ 44 $ 60 Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit 173 154 Guaranteed minimum income benefit (51 ) 66 International: Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit 454 195 Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit 1,936 1,025 Total $ 2,556 $ 1,500 Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of ($269) million and $1,806 million, respectively, in embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair value of the guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. In connection with this adjustment, gains (losses) of ($96) million and ($1,932) million are included in the gains (losses) of ($269) million and $1,806 million in net derivative gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk, a decrease in the Companys credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to increase. Conversely, a widening of the Companys credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease. The Company uses derivative instruments and reinsurance to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. The derivative instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures, equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk is not hedged. The table below presents the estimated fair value of the derivatives hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives: December 31, 2010 2009 Primary Underlying Notional Estimated Fair Value Notional Estimated Fair Value Risk Exposure Derivative Type Amount Assets Liabilities Amount Assets Liabilities (In millions) Interest rate Interest rate swaps $ 13,762 $ 401 $ 193 $ 8,847 $ 194 $ 275 Interest rate futures 5,822 32 10 4,997 5 4 Interest rate options 614 15 Foreign currency Foreign currency forwards 2,320 46 1 2,016 4 30 Currency options 327 14 Equity market Equity futures 6,959 17 9 6,033 31 20 Equity options 32,942 1,720 1,196 26,661 1,596 1,018 Variance swaps 17,635 190 118 13,267 174 58 Total rate of return swaps 1,547 126 Total $ 81,601 $ 2,421 $ 1527 $ 62,274 $ 2,018 $ 1,405 Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of $113 million and ($3,654) million related to the change in estimated fair value of the above derivatives. 154 Table of Contents Additionally, included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of ($35) million and $0, respectively, related to ceded reinsurance. Guarantees, including portions thereof, have liabilities established that are included in future policy benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the life contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of GMIB that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At each reporting period, the Company updates the actual amount of business remaining in force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings. The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in future policy benefits at: December 31, 2010 2009 (In millions) U.S. Business: Guaranteed minimum death benefit $ 167 $ 137 Guaranteed minimum income benefit 507 394 International: Guaranteed minimum death benefit 66 23 Guaranteed minimum income benefit 116 Total $ 856 $ 554 Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2010 is a charge of $302 million and for the year ended December 31, 2009 is a credit of $92 million, related to the respective change in liabilities for the above guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative instruments used are primarily equity futures, treasury futures and interest rate swaps. Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of $8 million and ($114) million, respectively, related to reinsurance treaties containing embedded derivatives carried at estimated fair value and gains (losses) of ($275) million and ($376) million, respectively, related to freestanding derivatives. While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed for guarantees included in both policyholder account balances and in future policy benefits, as well as other management actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of the Companys reinsurance agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of which, significantly reduces the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that is not hedged, changes in the nonperformance risk may result in significant volatility in net income. 155 Table of Contents Other Policy related Balances Other policy related balances include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder dividends left on deposit. The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death, disability, LTC and dental claims, as well as claims that have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the Companys estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development for each line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this continuous review process and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made. The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life type and investment type products and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the products estimated gross profits and margins, similar to deferred acquisition costs. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and investment type product policy fees. Also included in other policy related balances are policyholder dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders. Policyholder Dividends Payable Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy, generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The global economy and markets are now recovering from a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This disruption adversely affected the financial services industry, in particular. Consequently, financial institutions paid higher spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities than before the market disruption began. The U.S. economy entered a recession in late 2007. This recession ended in mid 2009, but the recovery from the recession has been below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. Although conditions in the financial markets continued to materially improve in 2010, there is still some uncertainty as to whether the stressed conditions that prevailed during the market disruption could recur, which could affect the Companys ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain capital. Liquidity Management Based upon the strength of its franchise, diversification of its businesses and strong financial fundamentals, we continue to believe the Company has ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and unlikely but reasonably possible stress scenarios. The Companys short term liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, excluding cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, and cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments) was $17.6 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of changing needs and opportunities. 156 Table of Contents The Company Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling 6 month forecast by portfolio of investment assets and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on the forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity, which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including funding agreements, and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, the Company has various alternatives available depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, the Companys access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate. If the Company requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, the Company may have difficulty selling investment assets in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, accounting rules require the recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based upon the Companys ability to hold such securities, which may negatively impact the Companys financial condition. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets other than those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose within a statutory legal entity are available to fund obligations of the general account within that legal entity. Capital The Companys capital position is managed to maintain its financial strength and credit ratings and is supported by its ability to generate strong cash flows at the operating companies, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise additional capital to meet its operating and growth needs. The Company raised new capital from its debt issuances during the difficult market conditions prevailing since the second half of 2008, as well as during the rebound and recovery periods beginning in the second quarter of 2009 (see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings). The increase in credit spreads experienced since then has resulted in an increase in the cost of such new capital, as well as increases in facility fees. Conversely, as a result of reductions in interest rates, the Companys interest expense and dividends on floating rate securities have been lower. Despite the still unsettled financial markets, the Company also raised new capital from a successful offering of the Holding Companys common stock in August 2010, which provided financing for the Acquisition. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Common Stock. Rating Agencies. Rating agencies assign insurer financial strength ratings to the Holding Companys domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to the Holding Company and certain of its subsidiaries. The level and composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and equity capital of the Company are among the many factors considered in determining the Companys insurer financial strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. 157 Table of Contents A downgrade in the credit or insurer financial strength ratings of the Holding Company or its subsidiaries would likely impact the cost and availability of financing for the Company and its subsidiaries and result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. Statutory Capital and Dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements. Except for American Life, RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of the Holding Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels. American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC by Delaware law. In addition to Delaware, American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which the company operates and are subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries. The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to the Holding Company or other parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to the Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See Business U.S. Regulation Insurance Regulation, The Holding Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Dividends from Subsidiaries and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 158 Table of Contents Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. The Companys primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are described below, and summarized as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Sources: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,996 $ 3,803 $ 10,702 Net cash provided by changes in policyholder account balances 4,557 13,645 Net cash provided by changes in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 3,076 Net cash provided by changes in bank deposits 3,164 2,185 Net cash provided by short term debt issuances 1,992 Long term debt issued, net of issuance costs 5,076 2,931 305 Collateral financing arrangements issued 105 310 Net cash received in connection with collateral financing arrangements 375 Junior subordinated debt securities issued 500 750 Common stock issued, net of issuance costs 3,576 290 Common stock issued to settle stock forward contracts 1,035 Treasury stock issued in connection with common stock issuance, net of issuance costs 1,936 Treasury stock issued to settle stock forward contracts 1,035 Cash provided by other, net 7 Cash provided by the effect of change in foreign currency exchange rates 108 Total sources 24,281 12,021 33,157 Uses: Net cash used in investing activities 18,314 13,935 2,671 Net cash used for changes in policyholder account balances 2,282 Net cash used for changes in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 6,863 13,077 Net cash used for changes in bank deposits 32 Net cash used for short term debt repayments 606 1,747 Long term debt repaid 1,061 555 422 Net cash paid in connection with collateral financing arrangements 800 Treasury stock acquired in connection with share repurchase agreements 1,250 Dividends on preferred stock 122 122 125 Dividends on common stock 784 610 592 Cash used in other, net 299 34 Cash used in the effect of change in foreign currency exchange rates 129 349 Total uses 21,347 26,148 19,286 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,934 $ (14,127 ) $ 13,871 Liquidity and Capital Sources Cash Flows from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these 159 Table of Contents cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations. Cash Flows from Investments. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities, sales of invested assets and net investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market volatility. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities; (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments; (iii) cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had $245.7 billion and $158.4 billion in liquid assets, respectively. For further discussion of invested assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements, see Investments Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is provided by a variety of short term instruments, including funding agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including short term and long term debt, preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities and equity and equity linked securities. The diversity of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. The Companys global funding sources include: The Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. (MetLife Funding) each have commercial paper programs supported by $4.0 billion in general corporate credit facilities (see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities). MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to the Holding Company, MLIC and other affiliates in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper program fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates financing arrangements. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At both December 31, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities for its commercial paper program, including accrued interest payable, of $102 million and $319 million, respectively. MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing privileges. To utilize these privileges, MetLife Bank has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. At both December 31, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank had no liability for advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under this facility. MetLife Bank has a cash need to fund residential mortgage loans that it originates and generally holds for a relatively short period before selling them to one of the government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. The outstanding volume of residential mortgage originations varies from month to month and is cyclical within a month. To meet the variable funding requirements from this mortgage activity, as well as to increase overall liquidity from time to time, MetLife Bank takes advantage of short term collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLB of NY). MetLife Bank has entered into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has received cash advances and under which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on certain of MetLife Banks residential mortgages, mortgage loans held for sale, commercial mortgages and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks repayment obligations. Upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the 160 Table of Contents FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the advances agreement. MetLife Bank has received advances from the FHLB of NY on both short and long term bases, with a total liability of $3.8 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company also had obligations under funding agreements with the FHLB of NY of $12.6 billion and $13.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for MLIC, and with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (FHLB of Boston) of $100 million and $326 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for MICC. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2010, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and General American Life Insurance Company, subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc., each became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (FHLB of Des Moines), and each purchased $10 million of FHLB of Des Moines common stock. Membership in the FHLB of Des Moines provides an additional source of contingent liquidity for the Company. There were no funding agreements with the FHLB of Des Moines at December 31, 2010. The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities (SPEs) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company issued $34.1 billion, $28.6 billion and $20.9 billion, respectively, and repaid $30.9 billion, $32.0 billion and $19.8 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, funding agreements outstanding, which are included in policyholder account balances, were $27.2 billion and $23.3 billion, respectively. MLIC and MICC have each issued funding agreements to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the U.S. The obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements issued to such SPEs was $2.8 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which is included in policyholder account balances. The obligations under these funding agreements are collateralized by designated agricultural real estate mortgage loans with estimated fair values of $3.2 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Outstanding Debt. The following table summarizes the outstanding debt of the Company at: December 31, 2010 2009 (In millions) Short term debt $ 306 $ 912 Long term debt (1) $ 20,766 $ 13,156 Collateral financing arrangements $ 5,297 $ 5,297 Junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,191 $ 3,191 (1) Excludes $6,820 million at December 31, 2010 of long term debt relating to CSEs. Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to ALICO Holdings $3,000 million in three series of debt securities (the Series C Debt Securities, the Series D Debt Securities and the Series E Debt Securities, and, together, the Debt Securities), which constitute a part of the MetLife, Inc. common equity units (the Equity Units) more fully described in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Debt Securities are subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at 1.56%, 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 1.98%), and carry initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023, June 15, 2024 and June 15, 2045, respectively. The interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful remarketings of the Debt Securities. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt Securities, such Debt 161 Table of Contents Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2045. In August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, the Holding Company issued senior notes as follows: $1,000 million senior notes due February 6, 2014, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375%, payable semi annually; $1,000 million senior notes due February 8, 2021, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.75%, payable semi annually; $750 million senior notes due February 6, 2041, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.875%, payable semi annually; and $250 million floating rate senior notes due August 6, 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 1.25%, payable quarterly. In connection with these offerings, the Holding Company incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the terms of the senior notes. In July 2009, the Holding Company issued $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities with a final maturity of August 2069. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 10.75% up to, but not including, August 1, 2039, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debt securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 7.548%, payable quarterly in arrears. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $5 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the securities. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the terms of the junior subordinated debt securities. In May 2009, the Holding Company issued $1.3 billion of senior notes due June 1, 2016. The notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semi annually. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $6 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the notes. In March 2009, the Holding Company issued $397 million of floating rate senior notes due June 2012 under the FDICs Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The notes bear interest at a rate equal to three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The notes are not redeemable prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the notes. In February 2009, the Holding Company remarketed its existing $1.0 billion 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due 2019. In August 2008, the Holding Company remarketed its existing $1.0 billion 4.82% Series A junior subordinated debt securities as 6.817% senior debt securities, Series A, due 2018. Interest on both series of debt securities is payable semi annually. The Series A and Series B junior subordinated debt securities were originally issued in 2005 in connection with the common equity units. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. In April 2008, MetLife Capital Trust X, a VIE consolidated by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the 2008 Trust Securities) with a face amount of $750 million. Interest on the 2008 Trust Securities or debt securities is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 9.25% up to, but not including, April 8, 2038, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the 2008 Trust Securities or debt securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 5.540%, payable quarterly in arrears. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the terms of these debt securities. 162 Table of Contents Collateral Financing Arrangements. As described more fully in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charlestons (MRC) reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution that referenced the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 35 year surplus notes issued by MRC. Under the agreement, the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of 3 month LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of 3 month LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below. Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Companys consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments due from the Holding Company under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from the Holding Company under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge collateral to the Holding Company related to any increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. During 2008, the Holding Company paid an aggregate of $800 million to the unaffiliated financial institution relating to declines in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. The Holding Company did not receive any payments from the unaffiliated financial institution during 2008. During 2009, on a net basis, the Holding Company received $375 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by the Holding Company during 2010. Since the closing of the collateral financing arrangement in December 2007, on a net basis, the Holding Company has paid $425 million to the unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had pledged collateral with an estimated fair value of $49 million to the unaffiliated financial institution. At December 31, 2009, the Holding Company had no collateral pledged to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with this agreement. The Holding Company may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early termination of this agreement. In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolinas (MRSC) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by trusts established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of 3 month LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing agreement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing. The Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2010, no payments were made or received by the Holding Company. During 2009 and 2008, the Holding Company contributed $360 million and $320 million, respectively, as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively, since May 2007, the Holding Company has contributed a total of $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited into the trusts. In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding Company had pledged $63 million and $80 million under the agreement, respectively. 163 Table of Contents Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. In February 2009, the Holding Company closed the successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the junior subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity units. The Series B junior subordinated debt securities were modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due February 15, 2019. The Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their junior subordinated debt securities remarketed and used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the Holding Companys common stock. The Holding Company delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. In August 2008, the Holding Company closed the successful remarketing of the Series A portion of the junior subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity units. The Series A junior subordinated debt securities were modified as permitted by their terms to be 6.817% senior debt securities, Series A, due August 15, 2018. The Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their junior subordinated debt securities remarketed and used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The initial settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on August 15, 2008, providing proceeds to the Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the Holding Companys common stock. The Holding Company delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock held in treasury at a value of $1,064 million to settle the stock purchase contracts. Other. In March 2009, the Company sold Cova Corporation, the parent company of Texas Life Insurance Company, for $130 million in cash consideration, excluding $1 million of transaction costs. The proceeds of the transaction were paid to the Holding Company. Credit and Committed Facilities. The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding $1.5 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of the Companys affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding $5.4 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $4.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these facilities. We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Companys actual future cash funding requirements. As a result of the successful offerings of certain senior notes and common stock in August 2010, the commitment letter for a $5.0 billion senior credit facility, which the Holding Company signed to partially finance the Acquisition, was terminated. During March 2010, the Holding Company paid $28 million in fees related to this senior credit facility, all of which were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2010. Covenants. Certain of the Companys debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 164 Table of Contents Preferred Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Holding Company did not issue any non convertible preferred stock. In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into a replacement capital covenant (the Replacement Capital Covenant) whereby the Company agreed for the benefit of holders of one or more series of the Companys unsecured long term indebtedness designated from time to time by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Replacement Capital Covenant (Covered Debt), that the Company will not repay, redeem or purchase and will cause its subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase, on or before the termination of the Replacement Capital Covenant on December 31, 2018 (or earlier termination by agreement of the holders of Covered Debt or when there is no longer any outstanding series of unsecured long term indebtedness which qualifies for designation as Covered Debt), the Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of the Holding Company or the 6.500% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of the Holding Company, unless such repayment, redemption or purchase is made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain replacement capital securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenant. Convertible Preferred Stock. In November 2010, the Holding Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 6,857,000 shares of Series B contingent convertible junior participating non cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the Convertible Preferred Stock) convertible into approximately 68,570,000 shares (valued at $40.90 per share at the time of the Acquisition) of the Holding Companys common stock (subject to anti dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of the Holding Companys common stockholders. If a favorable vote of its common stockholders is not obtained by the first anniversary of the Acquisition Date, then the Holding Company must pay ALICO Holdings $300 million and use reasonable efforts to list the preferred stock on NYSE. Management considers the likelihood that the Holding Company will fail to obtain a vote of its common stockholders to be remote. Common Stock. In November 2010, the Holding Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share. The aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc.s common stock to be issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the transaction is expected to be 214.6 million to 231.5 million shares, consisting of the 78.2 million shares issued at closing, 68.6 million shares to be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock (with the stockholder vote on such conversion to be held within one year after the closing) (together with $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of Equity Units of MetLife, Inc., the Securities) and between 67.8 million and 84.7 million shares of common stock, in total, issuable upon settlement of the purchase contracts forming part of the Equity Units (in three tranches approximately two, three and four years after the closing). The ownership of the Securities is subject to an investor rights agreement, which grants to ALICO Holdings certain rights and sets forth certain agreements with respect to ALICO Holdings ownership, voting and transfer of the Securities, including minimum holding periods, restrictions on the number of shares ALICO Holdings can sell at one time, its agreement to vote the common stock in the same proportion as the common stock voted by all other stockholders, and its agreement not to seek control or influence the Companys management or Board of Directors. ALICO Holdings has indicated that it intends to monetize the Securities over time, subject to market conditions, following the lapse of agreed upon minimum holding periods. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Equity Units. In August 2010, the Holding Company issued 86,250,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of $3,623 million. In connection with the offering of common stock, the Holding Company incurred $94 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid in capital. In connection with the remarketing of the junior subordinated debt securities, in February 2009, the Holding Company delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock, and in August 2008, the Holding Company delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock from treasury stock, to settle the stock purchase contracts. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. In October 2008, the Holding Company issued 86,250,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $26.50 per share for gross proceeds of $2.3 billion. Of these shares issued, 75,000,000 shares were issued from treasury stock, and 11,250,000 were newly issued shares. 165 Table of Contents During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 332,121 shares, 861,586 shares and 2,271,188 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $18 million, $46 million and $118 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises. During the year ended December 31, 2010, 2,182,174 new shares of common stock were issued for $74 million to satisfy various stock option exercises. During both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, no new shares of common stock were issued to satisfy stock option exercises. Equity Units. In November 2010, the Holding Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of Equity Units. The Equity Units, which are mandatorily convertible securities, will initially consist of (i) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc.s common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to be approximately two, three and four years after closing of the Acquisition), for a fixed amount per purchase contract, (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) and (ii) an interest in each of three series of Debt Securities of MetLife, Inc. The value of the purchase contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities. At future dates, the Series C, D and E Debt Securities will be subject to remarketing and sold to investors. Holders of the Equity Units who elect to include their Debt Securities in a remarketing can use the proceeds thereof to meet their obligations under the purchase contracts. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Equity Units. Liquidity and Capital Uses Acquisitions. The computation of the purchase price of the Acquisition is presented below: November 1, 2010 (In millions) Cash (includes $396 million of contractual purchase price adjustments) $ 7,196 MetLife, Inc.s common stock (78,239,712 shares at $40.90 per share) 3,200 MetLife, Inc.s Convertible Preferred Stock 2,805 MetLife, Inc.s Equity Units ($3.0 billion aggregate stated amount) 3,189 Total purchase price $ 16,390 Debt Repayments. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments of $349 million, $497 million and $371 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY related to long term borrowings. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments to the FHLB of NY related to short term borrowings of $12.9 billion, $26.4 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments related to short term borrowings to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of $21.2 billion and 650 million, respectively. No repayments were made to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the year ended December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, MICC made repayments of $300 million to the FHLB of Boston related to short term borrowings. No repayments were made to the FHLB of Boston during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008. Debt Repurchases. We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined in the Companys discretion. Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy 166 Table of Contents surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat by segment. In the Retirement Products segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, general account surrenders and withdrawals from annuity products were $3.8 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. In the Corporate Benefit Funding segment, which includes pension closeouts, bank owned life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements (including funding agreements with the FHLB of NY and the FHLB of Boston) and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities that provide customers with limited liquidity rights, at December 31, 2010 there were $1,615 million of funding agreements and other capital market products that could be put back to the Company after a period of notice. Of these liabilities, $1,565 million were subject to notice periods between 15 and 90 days. The remainder of the balance was subject to a notice period of 9 months or greater. An additional $375 million of Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations. Dividends. The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock: Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) October 26, 2010 November 9, 2010 December 14, 2010 $ 0.74 $ 784 (1) October 29, 2009 November 9, 2009 December 14, 2009 $ 0.74 $ 610 October 28, 2008 November 10, 2008 December 15, 2008 $ 0.74 $ 592 (1) Includes dividends on Convertible Preferred Stock issued in November 2010. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Convertible Preferred Stock. Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding Companys Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Companys current earnings, expected medium and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. 167 Table of Contents Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Holding Companys Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A and 6.500% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Dividend Series A Series A Series B Series B Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) November 15, 2010 November 30, 2010 December 15, 2010 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 16, 2010 August 31, 2010 September 15, 2010 $ 0.2555555 6 $ 0.4062500 24 May 17, 2010 May 31, 2010 June 15, 2010 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 5, 2010 February 28, 2010 March 15, 2010 $ 0.2500000 6 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 26 $ 96 November 16, 2009 November 30, 2009 December 15, 2009 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 17, 2009 August 31, 2009 September 15, 2009 $ 0.2555555 6 $ 0.4062500 24 May 15, 2009 May 31, 2009 June 15, 2009 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 5, 2009 February 28, 2009 March 16, 2009 $ 0.2500000 6 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 26 $ 96 November 17, 2008 November 30, 2008 December 15, 2008 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 15, 2008 August 31, 2008 September 15, 2008 $ 0.2555555 6 $ 0.4062500 24 May 15, 2008 May 31, 2008 June 16, 2008 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 5, 2008 February 29, 2008 March 17, 2008 $ 0.3785745 9 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 29 $ 96 Share Repurchases. At January 1, 2008, the Company had $511 million remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. In both January and April 2008, the Companys Board of Directors authorized $1.0 billion common stock repurchase programs. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 19,716,418 shares for $1.2 billion under accelerated share repurchases and 1,550,000 shares for $88 million in open market repurchases. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not repurchase any shares. Under these common stock repurchase program authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of MetLife, Inc.s common stock compared to managements assessment of the stocks underlying value and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to purchase any common stock and the size and timing of any such purchases will be determined in the Companys complete discretion. Residential Mortgage Loans Held for Sale. At December 31, 2010, the Company held $3,321 million in residential mortgage loans held for sale, compared with $2,728 million at December 31, 2009, an increase of $593 million. From time to time, MetLife Bank has an increased cash need to fund mortgage loans that it generally holds for a relatively short period before selling them to one of the government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. To meet these increased funding requirements, as well as to increase overall liquidity, MetLife Bank takes advantage of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FHLB of NY. For further detail on MetLife Banks use of these funding sources, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Global Funding Sources. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. Also, the Company pledges collateral to, and has collateral pledged to it by, counterparties under the Companys current derivative transactions. With respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two 168 Table of Contents notch downgrade would have increased the Companys derivative collateral requirements by $159 million at December 31, 2010. In addition, the Company has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it, in connection with collateral financing arrangements related to the reinsurance of closed block liabilities and universal life secondary guarantee liabilities. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements. Securities Lending. The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks, and the Company receives cash collateral from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to the Company. Under the Companys securities lending program, the Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $24.6 billion and $21.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.8 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were on open terms, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to the Company on the next business day upon return of cash collateral. Of the $2.7 billion of estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on open terms at December 31, 2010, $2.3 billion were U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements. See Investments Securities Lending for further information. Other. In September 2008, in connection with the split off of Reinsurance Group of America (RGA) as described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company received from MetLife stockholders 23,093,689 shares of MetLife, Inc.s common stock with a market value of $1.3 billion and, in exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a net book value of $1.7 billion resulting in a loss on disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million. Contractual Obligations. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations at December 31, 2010: More Than More Than One Year One Year to Three Years More Than Contractual Obligations Total or Less Three Years to Five Years Five Years (In millions) Future policy benefits $ 319,565 $ 6,271 $ 10,295 $ 12,205 $ 290,794 Policyholder account balances 289,823 35,981 46,274 35,280 172,288 Other policyholder liabilities 9,983 7,995 485 124 1,379 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 27,272 27,272 Bank deposits 10,406 8,879 1,499 28 Short term debt 306 306 Long term debt 31,184 2,340 4,773 5,932 18,139 Collateral financing arrangements 6,696 64 127 127 6,378 Junior subordinated debt securities 10,191 258 517 516 8,900 Commitments to lend funds 12,537 11,215 710 55 557 Operating leases 2,151 366 517 303 965 Other 15,356 14,873 52 3 428 Total $ 735,470 $ 115,820 $ 65,249 $ 54,573 $ 499,828 Future policy benefits Future policy benefits include liabilities related to traditional whole life policies, term life policies, pension closeout and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, master terminal funding agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long term disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within future policy benefits are contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death, as well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has been determined 169 Table of Contents by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of $1.4 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above. Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities associated with property and casualty contracts of $1.5 billion have been included using an estimate of the ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid under property and casualty contracts is not determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years from the present date. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $319.6 billion exceeds the liability amount of $173.4 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. For the majority of the Companys insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. (See Policyholder account balances below.) Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table above due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments. Policyholder account balances Policyholder account balances include liabilities related to conventional guaranteed interest contracts, guaranteed interest contracts associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total control accounts, individual and group universal life, variable universal life and company owned life insurance. Included within policyholder account balances are contracts where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so, as well as those where the timing of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting adjustments of $539 million, as well as $2.4 billion relating to embedded derivatives, have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above as they represent accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. 170 Table of Contents Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot rates. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $289.8 billion exceeds the liability amount of $211.0 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. See the comments under Future policy benefits above regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balances. Other policyholder liabilities Other policyholder liabilities are comprised of other policy related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related to these balances are as follows: a. Other policy related balances includes liabilities for incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group term life, long term disability, long term care and dental; policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to unearned revenue and negative VOBA of $2.2 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, have been excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above because they reflect accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table above related to other policy related balances is equal to the liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the one year or less category due to the short term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. b. Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the table above in the one year or less category at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet. c. The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described in Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long term projection of the performance of the closed block, we have reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. This was presented to reflect the long duration of the liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment. Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table above. The Company also holds non cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of $984 million at December 31, 2010. Bank deposits Bank deposits of $10.4 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of $10.3 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest payments. Liquid deposits, including demand deposit accounts, money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at maturity. Short term debt, long term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities Amounts presented in the table above for short term debt, long term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase 171 Table of Contents accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above also include interest on such obligations as described below. Short term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities of one year or less carrying fixed interest rates. The contractual obligation for short term debt presented in the table above represents the principal amounts due upon maturity plus the related interest for the period from January 1, 2011 through maturity. Long term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2011 through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2010 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Long term debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of $3 million, $2 million, $0 and $27 million, in the one year or less, more than one year to three years, more than three years to five years and more than five years categories, respectively. Long term debt presented in the table above excludes $6,820 million at December 31, 2010 of long term debt relating to CSEs. Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2011 through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2010 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Pursuant to these collateral financing arrangements, the Holding Company may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements. Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed interest rates through their respective redemption dates. Interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2011 through the scheduled redemption dates as it is the Companys expectation that the debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion. Commitments to lend funds The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration date of the commitment. As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Operating leases As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Other Includes other miscellaneous contractual obligations of $32 million not included elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the table above are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the one year or less category. The other liabilities presented in the table above differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by $5.0 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such as legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. 172 Table of Contents The net funded status of the Companys pension and other postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above. Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary contributions of $175 million to be made by the Company to our pension plan in 2011 and the discretionary contributions of $120 million, based on the current years expected gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2011. Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Companys cash flows. Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest of $810 million and $221 million, respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also excluded from the table. See also Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected with the separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations were not material to its consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31, 2010. Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance as required. Support Agreements. The Holding Company and several of its subsidiaries (each, an Obligor) are parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entitys insurance liabilities. We anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place demands upon the Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Company to meet anticipated demands. See The Holding Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Support Agreements. Litigation. Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse 173 Table of Contents outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. The Holding Company Capital Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies. The Holding Company and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and bank and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking regulatory agencies, the Holding Company and MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Banks risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory agencies well capitalized standards and all of the Holding Companys risk based and leverage capital ratios meeting the adequately capitalized standards. In addition to requirements which may be imposed in connection with the implementation of Dodd Frank, if endorsed and adopted in the U.S., Basel III will also lead to increased capital and liquidity requirements for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. See Industry Trends Financial and Economic Environment Regulatory Changes. The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: MetLife, Inc. RBC Ratios Bank Holding Company Regulatory Regulatory December 31, Requirements Requirements 2010 2009 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 8.52 % 9.88 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 8.21 % 9.44 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.11 % 5.71 % 4.00 % n/a MetLife Bank RBC Ratios Bank Regulatory Regulatory December 31, Requirements Requirements 2010 2009 Minimum Well Capitalized Total RBC Ratio 15.00 % 13.41 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 14.16 % 12.16 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 7.14 % 6.64 % 4.00 % 5.00 % Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. For information regarding the primary sources and uses of Holding Company liquidity and capital, see The Company Capital Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. Liquidity and Capital Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit and committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of the Holding Companys liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance 174 Table of Contents sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding Companys access to liquidity. The Holding Companys ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See The Company Capital Rating Agencies. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the Holding Companys liquidity. Liquidity and Capital Sources Dividends from Subsidiaries. The Holding Company relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. The Holding Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid: 2011 2010 2009 2008 Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted w/o w/o w/o w/o Company Approval (1) Paid (2) Approval (3) Paid (2) Approval (3) Paid (2) Approval (3) (In millions) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company $ 1,321 $ 631 (4) $ 1,262 $ $ 552 $ 1,318 (5) $ 1,299 American Life Insurance Company (6) $ 661 $ $ 511 N/A N/A N/A N/A MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut $ 517 $ 330 $ 659 $ $ 714 $ 500 $ 1,026 Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company $ $ 260 $ $ 300 $ 9 $ 300 $ Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company $ 80 $ 569 (7) $ 93 $ $ 88 $ 277 (8) $ 113 (1) Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2011 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends previously paid over rolling 12 month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2011, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. (2) All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. (3) Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval. (4) Includes securities transferred to the Holding Company of $399 million. (5) Consists of shares of RGA stock distributed by MLIC to the Holding Company as an in kind dividend of $1,318 million. (6) Reflects dividends permitted to be paid and the respective dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See Note 2 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (7) Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding Company as an in kind dividend of $475 million. 175 Table of Contents (8) Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding Company as an in kind dividend of $164 million. In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, cash dividends in the aggregate amount of $0, $215 million and $235 million, respectively, were paid to the Holding Company. The dividend capacity of non U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments to the parent to a portion of the prior years statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of the non U.S. operations, including the Japan branch of American Life, may also limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the operations of the non U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of the non U.S. subsidiaries are second tier subsidiaries and are not directly owned by the Holding Company. The capital and rating considerations applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into the Holding Company. The Companys management actively manages its target and excess capital levels and dividend flows on a pro active basis and forecasts local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain the desired rating or level of financial strength in the relevant market. Management of the Holding Company cannot provide assurances that the Holding Companys subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Holding Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities; and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding Company had $2.8 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. In addition, the Holding Company has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding Company had pledged $362 million and $289 million, respectively, of liquid assets under collateral support agreements. Shelf Registration. In November 2010, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration statement (the 2010 Shelf Registration Statement) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which was automatically effective upon filing, in accordance with SEC rules. SEC rules also allow for pay as you go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendments for companies, such as the Holding Company, which qualify as Well Known Seasoned Issuers. The 2010 Shelf Registration Statement registered an unlimited amount of debt and equity securities and replaces the shelf registration statement that the Holding Company filed in November 2007, which expired in the fourth quarter of 2010. The terms of any offering will be established at the time of the offering. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of short term instruments, including commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including medium and long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of the Holding Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding Companys liquidity include programs for short and long term borrowing, as needed. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of changing requirements and market conditions. 176 Table of Contents Long term Debt. The following table summarizes the outstanding long term debt of the Holding Company at: December 31, 2010 2009 (In millions) Long term debt unaffiliated $ 16,258 $ 10,458 Long term debt affiliated $ 665 (1) $ 500 Collateral financing arrangements $ 2,797 $ 2,797 Junior subordinated debt securities $ 1,748 $ 1,748 (1) Includes $165 million of affiliated senior notes associated with bonds held by ALICO. Short term Debt. MetLife, Inc. maintains a commercial paper program, proceeds of which can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Holding Company had no short term debt outstanding at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. There was no short term debt activity in 2010. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the weighted average interest rate on short term debt, comprised only of commercial paper, was 1.25% and 2.5%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance on short term debt was $5 million, and the average days outstanding was 6 days. Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. For information on debt issuances and other borrowings entered into by the Holding Company, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. Senior Notes. The following table summarizes the Holding Companys outstanding senior notes series by maturity date, excluding any premium or discount, at December 31, 2010: Maturity Date Principal Interest Rate (In millions) 2011 $ 750 6.13% 2012 $ 400 5.38% 2012 $ 397 3 month LIBOR + .032% 2013 $ 500 5.00% 2013 $ 250 3 month LIBOR + 1.25% 2014 $ 350 5.50% 2014 $ 1,000 2.38% 2015 $ 1,000 5.00% 2016 $ 1,250 6.75% 2018 $ 1,035 6.82% 2018 (1) $ 500 1.56% 2018 (2) $ 500 2.46% 2019 $ 1,035 7.72% 2020 $ 729 5.25% 2021 $ 1,000 4.75% 2023 (1) $ 500 1.56% 2024 $ 1,000 1.92% 2024 $ 673 5.38% 2032 $ 600 6.50% 2033 $ 200 5.88% 2034 $ 750 6.38% 2035 $ 1,000 5.70% 2041 $ 750 5.88% 2045 (2) $ 500 2.46% (1) Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series C Debt Securities. (2) Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series E Debt Securities. 177 Table of Contents Collateral Financing Arrangements. For information on collateral financing arrangements entered into by the Holding Company, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements. Credit and Committed Facilities. At December 31, 2010, the Holding Company, along with MetLife Funding, maintained $4.0 billion in unsecured credit facilities, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had outstanding $1.5 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against this facility. Remaining unused commitments were $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The Holding Company maintains committed facilities with a capacity of $300 million. At December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had outstanding $300 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. There were no remaining unused commitments at December 31, 2010. In addition, the Holding Company is a party to committed facilities of certain of its subsidiaries, which aggregated $12.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of the Companys affiliated reinsurance liabilities. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on these facilities. Covenants. Certain of the Holding Companys debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Holding Company believes it was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock and Equity Units. For information on preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, common stock and common equity units issued by the Holding Company, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock, and Equity Units, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Uses The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include debt service, cash dividends on preferred, convertible preferred and common stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, our asset portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its preferred, convertible preferred and common stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash needs. Acquisitions. For information regarding the purchase price of the Acquisition, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Acquisitions. Affiliated Capital Transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Holding Company invested an aggregate of $699 million (excludes the Acquisition), $986 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, in various subsidiaries. The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries and consisted of the following at: December 31, Subsidiaries Interest Rate Maturity Date 2010 2009 (In millions) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 6 month LIBOR + 1.80% December 31, 2011 $ 775 $ 775 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 6 month LIBOR + 1.80% December 31, 2011 300 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 7.13% December 15, 2032 400 400 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 7.13% January 15, 2033 100 100 Total $ 1,275 $ 1,575 178 Table of Contents Debt Repayments. The Holding Company intends to either repay all or refinance in whole or in part the debt that is due in December 2011. See The Holding Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Senior Notes. Support Agreements. The Holding Company is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries and a corporation in which it owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, the Holding Company has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. In November 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations of Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. (Exeter) in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited (MEL), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit linked annuity contracts issued by MEL. In January 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. (MoRe), under a retrocession agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc., pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance issued by MLIC. In December 2009, the Holding Company, in connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont (MRV)s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cells authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Holding Company, in connection with MRVs reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cells authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRCs reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSCs reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSCs authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited (MSI MetLife), an investment in Japan of which the Holding Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSI 179 Table of Contents MetLife to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSI MetLife to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make such loans to MSI MetLife as may be necessary to ensure that MSI MetLife has sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. As described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Holding Company reached an agreement to sell its 50% interest in MSI MetLife to a third party. Upon the close of such sale, the Holding Companys obligations under the net worth maintenance agreement will terminate. The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding any prior disposition of the Holding Companys interest in MSI MetLife as described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Holding Company also guarantees the obligations of a number of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third party banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent Events Dividends On February 18, 2011, the Holding Company announced dividends of $0.2500000 per share, for a total of $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Company anticipates will be made on or about March 7, 2011. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2011 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2011. Credit Facility On February 1, 2011, the Holding Company entered into a committed facility with a third party bank to provide letters of credit for the benefit of MoRe, a captive reinsurance subsidiary, to address its short term solvency needs based on guidance from the regulator. This one year facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit in amounts up to $350 million. Under the facility, a letter of credit for $250 million was issued on February 2, 2011 and increased to $295 million on February 23, 2011, which management believes satisfies MoRes solvency requirements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and Investment Department along with the management of the business segments. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the estimated fair values of certain 180 Table of Contents assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. Enterprise Risk Management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. Further enhancing its committee structure, during the second quarter of 2010, MetLife created an Enterprise Risk Committee made up of the following voting members: the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment Officer, the President of U.S. Business, the President of International and the Chief Risk Officer. This committee is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those risks. MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk management throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Committee of the Companys Board of Directors; with respect to credit risk, to the Investment Committee of the Companys Board of Directors; and, reporting on various aspects of risk, to financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/Liability Management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the Financial Risk Management and Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management, the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product type. In addition, an ALM Steering Committee oversees the activities of the underlying ALM Committees. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups. Market Risk Exposures The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market. Interest Rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits 181 Table of Contents which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing and ALM strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. ALM strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See Risk Factors Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios are the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar. The principal currencies that create foreign currency risk in the Companys liabilities are the British pound, the Euro and the Swiss franc. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Company is primarily exposed to the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen, the South Korean won, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Chilean peso, the Australian dollar, the Argentine peso, the Polish zloty, the Euro and the Hong Kong dollar. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. The Company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See Risk Factors Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability. Equity Market. The Company has exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain policyholder account balances along with investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. The Company also manages equity market risk exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under GAAP. Management of Market Risk Exposures The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Management. To manage interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The New York State Insurance Department regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. 182 Table of Contents Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management. Foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. The Companys Treasury Department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department. The Investment Department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a periodic basis. The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency exposures caused by the sale of insurance products. Equity Market Risk Management. Equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the Companys Asset/Liability Management Unit in partnership with the Investment Department. Equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses derivatives to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include exchange traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. The Company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. Hedging Activities. MetLife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the Companys derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The Companys use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits The Company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees For certain Company liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability Contracts Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. 183 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk The Company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to U.S. dollars. General ALM Hedging Strategies In the ordinary course of managing the Companys asset/liability risks, the Company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2010. The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the Companys market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the Companys foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys market sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010: December 31, 2010 (In millions) Non trading: Interest rate risk $ 5,358 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 3,669 Equity market risk $ 14 Trading: Interest rate risk $ 24 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 346 184 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys trading and non trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2010 Assuming a Estimated 10% Increase Notional Fair in the Yield Amount Value (3) Curve (In millions) Assets: Fixed maturity securities $ 327,284 $ (5,961 ) Equity securities 3,606 Trading and other securities 18,589 (25 ) Mortgage loans: Held for investment 60,846 (355 ) Held for sale 3,321 (24 ) Mortgage loans, net 64,167 (379 ) Policy loans 13,406 (179 ) Real estate joint ventures (1) 482 Other limited partnership interests (1) 1,619 Short term investments 9,387 (2 ) Other invested assets: Mortgage servicing rights 950 70 Other 1,490 Cash and cash equivalents 13,046 (2 ) Accrued investment income 4,381 Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 4,048 (331 ) Other assets 453 (9 ) Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 185 (17 ) Mortgage loan commitments $ 3,754 (17 ) (13 ) Commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 2,437 Total Assets $ (6,848 ) Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ 849 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 27,272 Bank deposits 10,371 5 Short term debt 306 Long term debt 21,892 361 Collateral financing arrangements 4,757 (9 ) Junior subordinated debt securities 3,461 160 Other liabilities: Trading liabilities 46 1 Other 2,777 Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 1,515 Total Liabilities $ 2,882 Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 54,803 $ 1,138 $ (1,254 ) Interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 (67 ) Interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 57 Interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 20 Interest rate options $ 8,761 121 (8 ) Interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) (32 ) Synthetic GICs $ 4,397 Foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 (12 ) Foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 1 Currency futures $ 493 2 Currency options $ 5,426 50 Non derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) Credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 Credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) Equity futures $ 8,794 12 Equity options $ 33,688 646 (96 ) Variance swaps $ 18,022 80 (9 ) Total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 (16 ) Total Derivative Instruments $ (1,416 ) Net Change $ (5,382 ) 185 Table of Contents (1) Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. This quantitative measure of risk has increased by $1,325 million, or 33%, to $5,382 million at December 31, 2010 from $4,057 million at December 31, 2009. Excluding the Acquisition which increased risk by $647 million, the quantitative measure of risk increased by $678 million or 17% at December 31, 2010 from December 31, 2009. The increase in risk is due to a change in the net assets and liabilities bases of $641 million. In addition, an increase of $954 million was due to the use of derivatives employed by the Company ($445 million), an increase in the duration of the investment portfolio ($389 million), and an increase in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables ($120 million). This increase in risk was partially offset by a decrease in interest rates across the long end of the Swaps and U.S. Treasury curves resulting in a decrease of $424 million. Additionally, net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts increased by $520 million, partially due to a change made in the second quarter of 2010 related to how the Company estimates the spread over the swap curve for purposes of determining the discount rate used to value those derivatives, which caused a corresponding decrease in risk. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 186 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Companys portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2010 Assuming a Estimated 10% Increase Notional Fair in the Foreign Amount Value (1) Exchange Rate (In millions) Assets: Fixed maturity securities $ 327,284 $ (6,516 ) Equity securities 3,606 (74 ) Trading and other securities 18,589 (346 ) Mortgage loans: Held for investment 60,846 (414 ) Held for sale 3,321 Mortgage loans, net 64,167 (414 ) Policy loans 13,406 (199 ) Short term investments 9,387 (200 ) Other invested assets: Mortgage servicing rights 950 Other 1,490 (143 ) Cash and cash equivalents 13,046 (139 ) Accrued investment income 4,381 (11 ) Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 4,048 (16 ) Total Assets $ (8,058 ) Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ 3,255 Bank deposits 10,371 Long term debt 21,892 37 Other liabilities 2,777 9 Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 437 Total Liabilities $ 3,738 Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 54,083 $ 1,138 $ (17 ) Interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 Interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 Interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 (2 ) Interest rate options $ 8,761 121 (2 ) Interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) Synthetic GICs $ 4,397 Foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 271 Foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 73 Currency futures $ 493 2 (49 ) Currency options $ 5,426 50 107 Non derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) Credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 Credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) Equity futures $ 8,794 12 2 Equity options $ 33,688 646 (77 ) Variance swaps $ 18,022 80 (1 ) Total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 Total Derivative Instruments $ 305 Net Change $ (4,015 ) 187 Table of Contents (1) Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $3,124 million, to $4,015 million at December 31, 2010 from $891 million at December 31, 2009. Excluding the Acquisition which increased risk by $2,646 million, the foreign currency exchange risk has increased by $478 million or 54% at December 31, 2010 from December 31, 2009. This change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities of $722 million due to higher exposures primarily within the British pound and the Euro and to the sale of the pension closeout business in the U.K. Additionally, a decrease in the foreign exposure related to long term debt and PABs contributed $66 million and $41 million, respectively, to the increase. This was partially offset by an increase in the foreign exposure related to net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts and the use of derivatives employed by the Company of $315 million and $101 million, respectively. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 188 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Equity Market Prices. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Companys portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at December 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2010 Assuming a Estimated 10% Decrease Notional Fair in Equity Amount Value (1) Prices (In millions) Assets: Equity securities $ 3,606 $ (355 ) Other invested assets: Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 185 11 Total Assets $ (344 ) Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ Bank deposits 10,371 Other liabilities: Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 (456 ) Total Liabilities $ (456 ) Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 54,803 $ 1,138 $ Interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 Interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 Interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 Interest rate options $ 8,761 121 Interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) Synthetic GICs $ 4,397 Foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 Foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 Currency futures $ 493 2 Currency options $ 5,426 50 Non derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) Credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 Credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) Equity futures $ 8,794 12 3 Equity options $ 33,688 646 628 Variance swaps $ 18,022 80 Total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 155 Total Derivative Instruments $ 786 Net Change $ (14 ) (1) Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity market risk. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 189 Table of Contents (3) During the fourth quarter of 2010, the analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market rates determined that due to the inclusion of ALICO, a decrease of 10% had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior year ends analysis of equity market rates shows an increase of 10% had the most adverse effect. Equity price risk decreased by $204 million to $14 million at December 31, 2010 from $218 million at December 31, 2009. Excluding the Acquisition which shifted the impact of a 10% change to a decrease in the equity market rates, the equity price risk has decreased by $191 million at December 31, 2010 from December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a change of $210 million attributed to the use of derivatives employed by the Company to hedge its equity exposures. Additionally, an increase in the net exposures related to net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of $42 million contributed to the decrease. This was partially offset by a decrease of $60 million in equity securities. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous insignificant items. 190 Table of Contents 
 
