Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For purposes of this discussion, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. Any or all forward looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. See Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. The following discussion includes references to our performance measures, operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior managements and many other employees performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends. Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. (Divested Businesses). Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues: Universal life and investment type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) fees (GMIB Fees); Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder directed unit linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are variable interest entities (VIEs) consolidated under GAAP; and Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges. 77 Table of Contents The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses: Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs (GMIB Costs), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts (Market Value Adjustments); Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of policyholder account balances (PABs) but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder directed unit linked investments; Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business acquired (VOBA) excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments; Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments; Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and (iii) business combinations. We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. Operating revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings, and operating earnings available to common shareholders, should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses, GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in Results of Operations. In 2011, management modified its definition of operating earnings to exclude the impacts of Divested Businesses, which includes certain operations of MetLife Bank, National Association (MetLife Bank) and our insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica (the Caribbean Business), as these results are not relevant to understanding the Companys ongoing operating results. Consequently, prior years results for Corporate & Other and total consolidated operating earnings have been decreased by $111 million, net of $66 million of income tax, and $211 million, net of $139 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, in 2011, management modified its definition of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders to exclude impacts related to certain variable annuity guarantees and Market Value Adjustments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, such results are no longer reported in operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders. Consequently, prior years results for Retirement Products and total consolidated operating earnings have been increased by $64 million, net of $34 million of income tax, and $90 million, net of $49 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 78 Table of Contents In this discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. Additionally, the impact of changes in our foreign currency exchange rates is calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates for the current year and is applied to each of the comparable years. Executive Summary MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance, mortgage and deposit products and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into six segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto & Home (collectively, U.S. Business), and Japan and Other International Regions (collectively, International). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other, which includes MetLife Bank and other business activities. On November 21, 2011, MetLife, Inc. announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad geographic regions: The Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business to better reflect its global reach. While the Company has initiated certain changes in response to this announcement, including the appointment of certain executive leadership into some of the roles designed for the reorganized structure, management continued to evaluate the performance of the operating segments under the existing segment structure as of December 31, 2011. In addition, management continues to evaluate the Companys segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust such measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability. In December 2011, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell most of the depository business of MetLife Bank. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, in January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages (together with MetLife Banks pending actions to exit the depository business, including the aforementioned December 2011 agreement, the MetLife Bank Events). Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Banks Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. See Business U.S. Regulation Financial Holding Company Regulation. The Company continues to originate reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers. As a result of the MetLife Bank Events, for the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded charges totaling $212 million, net of income tax, which included intent to sell other than temporary impairment (OTTI) investment charges, charges related to the de designation of certain cash flow hedges, a goodwill impairment charge and other employee related charges. In addition, the Company expects to incur additional charges of $90 million to $110 million, net of income tax, during 2012, related to exiting the forward residential mortgage origination business, with no expected impact on the Companys operating earnings. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On November 1, 2010 (the Acquisition Date), MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company (American Life) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) (AM Holdings), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (DelAm) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively, ALICO) (the Acquisition). ALICOs fiscal year end is November 30. Accordingly, the Companys consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the operating results of ALICO for the year ended November 30, 2011 and the one month ended November 30, 2010. The assets, liabilities and operating results relating to the Acquisition are included in the Japan and Other International Regions segments. Prior year results have been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation of segments. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 79 Table of Contents We continue to experience an increase in market share and sales in several of our businesses; however, the general economic conditions, including the high levels of unemployment, negatively impacted the demand for certain of our products. Portfolio growth in response to the higher sales levels drove improved investment results despite lower yields experienced in connection with the continued decline in interest rates in 2011. The declining interest rate environment, however, also generated significant derivative gains in 2011. Current year results were negatively impacted by severe weather, including the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in the first quarter, record numbers of tornadoes in the second quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 6,951 $ 2,747 $ (2,336 ) Less: Net investment gains (losses) (867 ) (408 ) (2,901 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 4,824 (265 ) (4,866 ) Less: Other adjustments to continuing operations (1) (1,641 ) (914 ) 480 Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (845 ) 379 2,597 Operating earnings 5,480 3,955 2,354 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ 5,358 $ 3,833 $ 2,232 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $4.2 billion to $7.0 billion from $2.8 billion in 2010. The change was predominantly due to a $5.1 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and a $1.5 billion favorable change in operating earnings available to common shareholders, which includes the impact of the Acquisition. The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.3 billion was primarily driven by favorable changes in freestanding derivatives, partially offset by unfavorable changes in embedded derivatives. The favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of falling long term and mid term interest rates and equity market movements and volatility. The Acquisition drove the majority of the $1.5 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. In addition, improved investment performance was the result of portfolio growth in response to increased sales across many of our businesses, which more than offset the negative impact of the declining interest rate environment on yields. Current year results were negatively impacted by severe weather, as well as, in the third quarter, a charge to increase reserves in connection with the Companys use of the U.S. Social Security Administrations Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not been presented to the Company (Death Master File) and expenses incurred related to a liquidation plan filed by the New York State Department of Financial Services (the Department of Financial Services) for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York (ELNY). Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2010, MetLifes income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses is from the inclusion of ALICO results for one month in 2010 and the impact of financing costs for the 80 Table of Contents Acquisition. The change was predominantly due to a $4.6 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and a $2.5 billion favorable change in net investment gains (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these favorable variances were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to continuing operations of $1.4 billion, before income tax, and $2.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a total favorable variance of $3.5 billion. In addition, operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.6 billion to $3.8 billion in 2010 from $2.2 billion in 2009. The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion was primarily driven by net gains on freestanding derivatives in 2010 compared to net losses in 2009, partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives from gains in 2009 to losses in 2010. The favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 than 2010, equity volatility, which decreased more in 2009 as compared to 2010, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. The favorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $1.6 billion was primarily driven by a decrease in impairments and a decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage loans. These favorable changes in net derivative and net investment gains (losses) were partially offset by an unfavorable change of $518 million in related adjustments. The improvement in the financial markets, which began in the second quarter of 2009 and continued into 2010, was a key driver of the $1.6 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. Such market improvement was most evident in higher net investment income and policy fees, as well as a decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs. These increases were partially offset by an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and deferred sales inducements (DSI) as a result of an increase in average separate account balances and higher 2010 gross margins in the closed block driven by increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. The 2010 period also includes one month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The favorable impact of a reduction in discretionary spending associated with our enterprise wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative was more than offset by an increase in other expenses related to our Other International Regions segment. This increase primarily stemmed from the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as current year business growth in the segment. Consolidated Company Outlook In 2012, we expect a solid improvement in the operating earnings of the Company over 2011, driven primarily by the following: Premiums, fees and other revenues growth in 2012 is expected to be driven by: Rational pricing strategy in the group insurance marketplace. Higher fees earned on separate accounts primarily due to favorable net flows of variable annuities, which are expected to remain strong in 2012, thereby increasing the value of those separate accounts; and Increases in our International businesses, notably accident and health, from continuing organic growth throughout our various geographic regions. Focus on disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results and continue to anticipate solid results in 2012; however, unanticipated catastrophes, similar to those that occurred during 2011, could result in a high volume of weather related claims. Focus on expense management. We continue to focus on expense control throughout the Company, and managing the costs associated with the integration of ALICO. Continued disciplined approach to investing and asset/liability management, including significant hedging to protect against low interest rates. 81 Table of Contents As a result of new financial accounting guidance for DAC which we intend to adopt in the first quarter of 2012, we estimate that, on the date of adoption, DAC will be reduced by approximately $3.1 billion to $3.6 billion and total equity will be reduced by approximately $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion, net of income tax. Additionally, we estimate that there will be a negative impact on our 2012 operating earnings primarily in Japan, with no impact on our on going cash flows. The Company plans to apply this accounting change retrospectively to all prior periods presented in its consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts. We expect only modest investment losses in 2012, but more difficult to predict is the impact of potential changes in fair value of freestanding and embedded derivatives as even relatively small movements in market variables, including interest rates, equity levels and volatility, can have a large impact on the fair value of derivatives and net derivative gains (losses). Additionally, changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within certain insurance liabilities may have a material impact on net derivative gains (losses) related to the inclusion of an adjustment for nonperformance risk. Industry Trends We continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the industry. Financial and Economic Environment. Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain (Europes perimeter region), and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to their sovereign debt. See Investments Current Environment for information regarding credit ratings downgrades and support programs for Europes perimeter region. These ratings downgrades and implementation of European Union and private sector support programs have increased concerns that other European Union member states could experience similar financial troubles, that some countries could default on their obligation or have to restructure their outstanding debt, that financial institutions with significant holdings of sovereign or private debt issued by borrowers in peripheral European countries could experience financial stress, or that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the European and global economies and on financial markets, generally. See Risk Factors We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period. Although the downgrade by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) of U.S. Treasury securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer term impact cannot be predicted. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) warned that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S. See Risk Factors Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an 82 Table of Contents Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See also Investments Current Environment for further information about European region support programs announced in July 2011 and October 2011, ratings actions and our exposure to obligations of European governments and private obligors. All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment and net derivative gains (losses), and the demand for and the cost and profitability of certain of our products, including variable annuities and guarantee benefits. See Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. As a financial holding company with significant operations in the U.S., we are affected by the monetary policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve Board) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the FRB of NY and, collectively with the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Reserve). The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve Board announced its plans to keep interest rates low until at least through late 2014, 18 months longer than previously planned in order to revive the slow recovery from stressed economic conditions. See Risk Factors Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position and Investments Current Environment. Competitive Pressures. The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industrys products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have highlighted financial strength as a significant differentiator from the perspective of customers and certain distributors. In addition, the financial market turbulence and the economic recession have led many companies in our industry to re examine the pricing and features of the products they offer and may lead to consolidation in the life insurance industry. Regulatory Changes. The U.S. life insurance industry is regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to Federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. The regulation of the financial services industry in the U.S. and internationally has received renewed scrutiny as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets. Significant regulatory reforms have been recently adopted and additional reforms proposed, and these or other reforms could be implemented. See Business U.S. Regulation, Business International Regulation, Risk Factors Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth and Risk Factors Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability. 83 Table of Contents The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank), which was signed by President Obama in July 2010, effected the most far reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd Frank which are scheduled to be completed over the next few years. See Business U.S. Regulation Dodd Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments and Risk Factors Various Aspects of Dodd Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth. As a federally chartered national banking association, MetLife Bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines, as is MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company. See Business U.S. Regulation Banking Regulation and Business U.S. Regulation Financial Holding Company Regulation. In December 2011, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell most of the depository business of MetLife Bank. In January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages. Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Banks FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, MetLife, Inc. will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) as a non bank systemically important financial institution (as discussed below), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as Regulation YY (as discussed below). In October 2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking, outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non bank systemically important financial institution. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published its final rules for increased capital and liquidity requirements (commonly referred to as Basel III) for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators, they are to be phased in beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed under Basel III, Dodd Frank and Regulation YY, as long as MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non bank systemically important financial institution. The Basel Committee has also published rules requiring a capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks, which are to be phased in beginning January 2016 if they are endorsed and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators. As currently proposed, this surcharge would not apply to global non bank systemically important financial institutions. However, international regulatory bodies are currently engaged in evaluating standards to identify such companies and to develop a regulatory regime that would apply to them, which may include enhanced capital requirements or other measures. The ability of MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital could be reduced by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd Frank, Regulation YY and or the endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III and other regulatory initiatives. See Risk Factors Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth. In April 2011, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC proposed a rule regarding the implementation of the Dodd Frank requirement that (i) each non bank financial company designated by the FSOC for enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve Board (a non bank systemically important financial institution or non bank SIFI) and each bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more report periodically to the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the FSOC the plan of such company for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and (ii) that each such company report on the nature and extent of credit exposures of such company to significant bank holding companies and significant non bank financial companies 84 Table of Contents and the nature and extent of credit exposures of significant bank holding companies and significant non bank financial companies to such covered company. In November 2011, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing the resolution plan requirement, effective November 30, 2011, but deferred finalizing the credit exposure reporting requirement until a later date. If MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company on July 1, 2012, or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non bank SIFI, it would be required to submit a resolution plan. See Business U.S. Regulation Dodd Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments Orderly Liquidation Authority. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a release proposing the adoption of enhanced prudential standards required by Dodd Frank (Regulation YY). Regulation YY would apply to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non bank SIFIs. Regulation YY would impose (i) enhanced risk based capital (RBC) requirements, (ii) leverage limits, (iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits, (v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress test requirements, and (vii) special debt to equity limits for certain companies, and would establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with these requirements. As proposed, Regulation YY would apply the same enhanced regulatory standards to non bank systemically important financial institutions as would apply to systemically important banks; the Federal Reserve Board has solicited comments on the appropriateness of this treatment. For further information regarding enhanced prudential standards and Regulation YY, see Business U.S. Regulation Dodd Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments Enhanced Prudential Standards. Dodd Frank also includes provisions that may impact the investment and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Such provisions include the regulation of the over the counter (OTC) derivatives markets and the prohibitions on covered banking entities engaging in proprietary trading or sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds. See Business U.S. Regulation Dodd Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments Regulation of Over the Counter Derivatives and Business U.S. Regulation Dodd Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments Volcker Rule. Mortgage and Foreclosure Related Exposures In 2008, MetLife Bank acquired certain assets to enter the forward and reverse residential mortgage origination and servicing business, including rights to service residential mortgage loans. At various times since then, including most recently in the third quarter of 2010, MetLife Bank has acquired additional residential mortgage loan servicing rights. On January 10, 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced that it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages, but will continue to service its current mortgage customers. As an originator and servicer of mortgage loans, which are usually sold to an investor shortly after origination, MetLife Bank has obligations to repurchase loans or compensate for losses upon demand by the investor due to defects in servicing of the loans or a determination that material representations made in connection with the sale of the loans (relating, for example, to the underwriting and origination of the loans) are incorrect. MetLife Bank is indemnified by the sellers of the acquired assets, for various periods depending on the transaction and the nature of the claim, for origination and servicing deficiencies that occurred prior to MetLife Banks acquisition, including indemnification for any repurchase claims made from investors who purchased mortgage loans from the sellers. Substantially all mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) that were acquired by MetLife Bank relate to loans sold to Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC). MetLife Bank has originated and sold mortgages primarily to FNMA and FHLMC and sold Federal Housing Administration and loans guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs in mortgage backed securities guaranteed by Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) (collectively, the Agency Investors) and, to a limited extent, a small number of private investors. Currently 99.5% of MetLife Banks $82.0 billion servicing portfolio consists of Agency Investors product. Other than repurchase obligations which are subject to indemnification by sellers of acquired assets as described above, MetLife Banks exposure to repurchase obligations and losses related to origination deficiencies is limited to the approximately $58.6 billion of loans originated by MetLife Bank (all of which have been originated since August 2008). Reserves for representation and warranty repurchases and indemnifications were $69 million and $56 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MetLife Bank is exposed to losses due to servicing deficiencies on loans originated and sold, as 85 Table of Contents well as servicing acquired, to the extent such servicing deficiencies occurred after the date of acquisition. Management is satisfied that adequate provision has been made in the Companys consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable repurchase obligations and losses. Currently, MetLife Bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the U.S. State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices. MetLife Banks mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent inquiries and requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. MetLife Bank is cooperating with the authorities review of this business. On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) entered into consent decrees with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. In a February 9, 2012 press release, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it had issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for deficiencies in the organizations servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other institutions under its supervision against whom it had issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board did not identify these six institutions, but MetLife, Inc. is among the institutions that entered into consent decrees with the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices. MetLife Bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the Department of Financial Services regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholders interest when the borrowers insurance has lapsed. These consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect MetLifes reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. In addition, the changes to the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business. The MetLife Bank Events may not relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation. Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of the Companys significant accounting policies see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) estimated fair values of investments in the absence of quoted market values; (ii) investment impairments; (iii) estimated fair values of freestanding derivatives and the recognition and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation; 86 Table of Contents (iv) amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; (v) measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (vi) liabilities for future policyholder benefits and the accounting for reinsurance; (vii) measurement of income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; (viii) measurement of employee benefit plan liabilities; and (ix) liabilities for litigation and regulatory matters. In addition, the application of acquisition accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed the most significant of which relate to aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying the Companys accounting policies, we make subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Companys business and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimated Fair Value of Investments In determining the estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, trading and other securities, short term investments, cash equivalents, mortgage loans and MSRs, various methodologies, assumptions and inputs are utilized. When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The market standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and managements assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available market information and managements judgments about financial instruments. The significant inputs to the market standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market. When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities. The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held for sale and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans is determined based on observable pricing for securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices, or from independent broker quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from third parties. Certain other mortgage loans that were previously designated as held for investment, but now are designated as held for sale, are recorded at the lower 87 Table of Contents of amortized cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value of the collateral less expected disposition costs determined on an individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent broker quotations, or values provided by independent valuation specialists, or when the loan is in foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is estimated using internal models. The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various assumptions. Valuation inputs and assumptions include generally observable items such as type and age of loan, loan interest rates, current market interest rates, and certain unobservable inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of which are sensitive to changing markets conditions. The use of different valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as assumptions relating to the collection of expected cash flows, may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Companys ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the estimated fair value of investments. Investment Impairments One of the significant estimates related to available for sale securities is the evaluation of investments for impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case by case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The Companys review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairment includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and or age of gross unrealized loss. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments and the Companys evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given by the Company to a decline in estimated fair value and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will recover. Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; 88 Table of Contents (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether the Companys ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal to its cost; (viii) with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral; expected prepayment speeds; current and forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to investment impairments. Derivative Financial Instruments The determination of estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment. The Company issues certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits, which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins for non capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment, which is captured as a spread over the risk free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc.s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. 89 Table of Contents As part of its regular review of critical accounting estimates, the Company periodically assesses inputs for estimating nonperformance risk in fair value measurements. During the second quarter of 2010, the Company completed a study that aggregated and evaluated data, including historical recovery rates of insurance companies, as well as policyholder behavior observed during the recent financial crisis. As a result, at the end of the second quarter of 2010, the Company refined the manner in which its insurance subsidiaries incorporate expected recovery rates into the nonperformance risk adjustment for purposes of estimating the fair value of investment type contracts and embedded derivatives within insurance contracts. The refinement impacted the Companys income from continuing operations, net of income tax, with no effect on operating earnings. The table below illustrates the impact that a range of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on the Companys consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax. However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, that can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements under the credit spread variance scenarios presented below. In determining the ranges, the Company has considered current market conditions, as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme market conditions experienced during the recent financial crisis as the Company does not consider those to be reasonably likely events in the near future. Carrying ValueAt December 31, 2011 PABs DAC andVOBA (In millions) 100% increase in the Companys credit spread $ 2,449 $ 700 As reported $ 4,176 $ 958 50% decrease in the Companys credit spread $ 5,479 $ 1,110 The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. Variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the Companys nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. If interpretations change, there is a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income. Additionally, the Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the 90 Table of Contents reinsurer. Because certain of the direct guarantees do not meet the definition of an embedded derivative and, thus are not accounted for at fair value, significant fluctuations in net income may occur since the change in fair value of the embedded derivative on the ceded risk is being recorded in net income without a corresponding and offsetting change in fair value of the direct guarantee. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys derivatives and hedging programs. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and relate to the production of new and renewal insurance business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions, certain agency expenses, policy issuance expenses and certain advertising costs. VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment type contracts in force at the acquisition date. For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability included in other policy related balances. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The Company will adopt new guidance regarding the accounting for DAC beginning in the first quarter of 2012 and will apply it retrospectively to all prior periods presented in its consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in force account balances on such contracts each reporting period which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Companys practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long term expectation changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of approximately $161 million with an offset to the Companys unearned revenue liability of approximately $26 million for this factor. The Company also periodically reviews other long term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed are updated annually. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. The Companys most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA are due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on participating traditional life contracts, variable and universal life contracts and annuity contracts. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. 91 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, DAC and VOBA for the Company was $28.0 billion, $27.1 billion and $19.1 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and the annuity contracts was significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Investment return $ (64 ) $ (84 ) $ 22 Separate account balances (145 ) 23 (85 ) Net investment gain (loss) (576 ) (124 ) 712 Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (15 ) 84 187 Expense (7 ) 96 61 In force/Persistency (2 ) 9 (118 ) Policyholder dividends and other 60 (203 ) 154 Total $ (749 ) $ (199 ) $ 933 The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2011: The decrease in equity markets during the year lowered separate account balances which led to a reduction in actual and expected future gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $145 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in a decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization of $531 million, excluding the impact from the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This decrease in actual gross profits was more than offset by freestanding derivative gains associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $847 million. The widening of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment decreased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $260 million. This was partially offset by higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $72 million. The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC amortization by $72 million, was primarily attributable to current period investment activities. The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2010: Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $197 million, excluding the impact from the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins, which 92 Table of Contents are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $88 million. The narrowing of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $96 million. In addition, higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $18 million. The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC amortization by $129 million, was primarily attributable to current period investment activities. Included in policyholder dividends and other was an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $42 million as a result of changes to long term assumptions. In addition, amortization increased by $39 million as a result of favorable gross margin variances. The remainder of the increase was due to various immaterial items. The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2009: Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $995 million, excluding the impact from the Companys nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $636 million. The narrowing of the Companys nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $607 million. This was partially offset by lower risk margins which decreased the guarantee liability valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $20 million. The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which decreased DAC amortization by $484 million, was primarily attributable to current period investment activities. Included in policyholder dividends and other was a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $90 million as a result of changes to long term assumptions. The remainder of the decrease was due to various immaterial items. The Companys DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been realized. The increase in unrealized investment gains decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $879 million and $1.4 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in unrealized investment losses decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $2.8 billion in 2009. Notes 3 and 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment losses. Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is 93 Table of Contents determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement products and individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to the equity market levels. We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only managements reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company announced its decision to explore the sale of MetLife Banks depository business. As a result, in September 2011, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test on MetLife Bank, which is a separate reporting unit within Corporate & Other. As a result of the testing, the Company recorded a $65 million goodwill impairment charge that is reflected as a net investment loss for the year ended December 31, 2011. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment tests of its other reporting units and concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company performed interim goodwill impairment testing on the Retirement Products reporting unit. This testing was due to adverse market conditions, which caused both the equity markets and interest rates to decline. The fair value of the Retirement Products reporting unit, which was calculated based on application of an actuarial valuation approach, exceeded the carrying value by approximately 10%. The valuation methodology is subject to judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. If we had assumed that the discount rate was 100 basis points higher than the discount rate, the fair value of the Retirement Products reporting unit would have exceeded the carrying value by approximately 2%. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of goodwill allocated to the Retirement Products reporting unit was approximately $1.7 billion. The estimate of fair value is inherently uncertain and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimate is based, will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. A change in market conditions, including equity market returns, interest rate levels and market volatility could result in a goodwill impairment. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad geographic regions, The Americas, EMEA and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business, to better reflect its global reach. As a result, the Companys reporting structure may change the composition of certain of its reporting units. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys goodwill. Liability for Future Policy Benefits Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for 94 Table of Contents future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed, additional liabilities may be established, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Companys historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance, recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S&P 500 Index. The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees, as well as in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys liability for future policy benefits. Reinsurance Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys reinsurance programs. Income Taxes The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The Companys accounting for income taxes represents managements best estimate of various events and 95 Table of Contents transactions. These tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in managements determination include the performance of the business and its ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following: (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years; and (iv) tax planning strategies. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the taxing authority upon audit. The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys income taxes. Employee Benefit Plans Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and or administer pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with our external consulting actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon an approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation, as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2010, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been a decrease of $75 million and an increase of $75 million, respectively. This considers only changes in our assumed long term rate of return given the level and mix of 96 Table of Contents invested assets at the beginning of the year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long term rate of return. We determine our discount rates used to value the pension and postretirement obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. Given the amount of pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2010, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been a decrease of $122 million and an increase of $142 million, respectively. This considers only changes in our assumed discount rates without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements and liquidity. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional assumptions used in measuring liabilities relating to the Companys employee benefit plans. Litigation Contingencies The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Companys financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Companys asbestos related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate the Companys asbestos related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation related contingencies to be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Companys litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys assessment of litigation contingencies. Economic Capital Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Companys business. Effective January 1, 2011, the Company updated its economic capital model to align segment allocated equity with emerging standards and consistent risk principles. Such changes to the Companys economic capital model are applied prospectively. Segment net investment income is also credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact the Companys consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. 97 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Dispositions See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2011, a local operating subsidiary of American Life closed on the purchase of a 99.86% stake in a Turkish life insurance and pension company and at the same time entered into an exclusive 15 year distribution arrangement with the seller to distribute the companys products in Turkey. Also in 2011, American Life agreed to sell certain closed blocks of business in the U.K. Finally, in 2011, Punjab National Bank (PNB) agreed to acquire a 30% stake in MetLife India Insurance Company Limited (MetLife India) and to enter into a separate exclusive 10 year distribution arrangement to sell MetLife Indias products through PNBs branch network. PNBs acquisition of the 30% stake in MetLife India is subject to, among other things, regulatory approval and final agreements among PNB and the existing shareholders of MetLife India. If such agreements are not obtained, or the transaction does not receive regulatory approval, PNB may request to amend or cancel the distribution agreement. In addition, in 2012, local operating subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. agreed to acquire, from members of the Aviva Plc group (Aviva), Avivas life insurance business in the Czech Republic and Hungary and Avivas life insurance and pensions business in Romania. The closing of each of these transactions is subject to regulatory and other approvals. 98 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Consolidated Results We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in several of our businesses. Sales of our domestic annuity products were up 51% driven by strong growth in variable annuities across all distribution channels. Even with the impact of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, our sales results in Japan are stronger than anticipated and continue to show steady growth and improvement across essentially all distribution channels. Market penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the U.K.; however, our domestic pension closeout business has been adversely impacted by a combination of poor equity market returns and lower interest rates. In the U.S., sustained high levels of unemployment and a challenging pricing environment continue to depress growth across our group insurance businesses. While we experienced growth in our traditional life and universal life businesses, sales of group life and non medical health products declined. Policy sales of auto and homeowners products decreased as the housing and automobile markets remained sluggish. We experienced steady growth and improvement in sales of the majority of our products abroad. Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 36,361 $ 27,071 $ 9,290 34.3 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 7,806 6,028 1,778 29.5 % Net investment income 19,606 17,511 2,095 12.0 % Other revenues 2,532 2,328 204 8.8 % Net investment gains (losses) (867 ) (408 ) (459 ) Net derivative gains (losses) 4,824 (265 ) 5,089 Total revenues 70,262 52,265 17,997 34.4 % Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 36,903 30,670 6,233 20.3 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 5,603 4,919 684 13.9 % Capitalization of DAC (6,858 ) (3,299 ) (3,559 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 5,391 2,843 2,548 89.6 % Amortization of negative VOBA (697 ) (64 ) (633 ) Interest expense on debt 1,629 1,550 79 5.1 % Other expenses 18,265 11,734 6,531 55.7 % Total expenses 60,236 48,353 11,883 24.6 % Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax 10,026 3,912 6,114 Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 3,075 1,165 1,910 Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax 6,951 2,747 4,204 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 20 39 (19 ) (48.7 )% Net income (loss) 6,971 2,786 4,185 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (10 ) (4 ) (6 ) Net income (loss) attributable to MetLife, Inc. 6,981 2,790 4,191 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Preferred stock redemption premium 146 146 Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders $ 6,713 $ 2,668 $ 4,045 99 Table of Contents Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $4.2 billion to $7.0 billion primarily driven by a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), partially offset by increased net investment losses, net of related adjustments, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization. Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, are the results of the Divested Businesses. In addition, operating earnings increased, reflecting the impact of the Acquisition. We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined Asset/Liability Management (ALM) principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net of income tax, risk adjusted net investment income and risk adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to, equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint ventures, provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels. Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include current and expected market conditions and expectations for changes within our specific mix of products and business segments. In addition, the general account investment portfolio includes, within trading and other securities, contractholder directed investments supporting unit linked variable annuity type liabilities, which do not qualify as separate account assets. The returns on these contractholder directed investments, which can vary significantly period to period, include changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances through interest credited to policyholder account balances. The composition of the investment portfolio of each business segment is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly, certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in longer duration, higher yielding fixed maturity securities, or certain sub sectors of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios. Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are incurred and can change significantly from period to period due to changes in external influences, including changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity markets; counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation; and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing. Changes in these factors from period to period can significantly impact the levels of both impairments and realized gains and losses on investments sold. We use freestanding interest rate, equity, credit and currency derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded derivatives within certain of our variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. For those hedges not designated as accounting hedges, changes in market factors can lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged even though these are effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue liabilities and purchase assets that contain embedded derivatives whose changes in estimated fair value are sensitive to changes in market factors and are also recognized in net derivative gains (losses). The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.3 billion, from losses of $172 million in 2010 to gains of $3.1 billion in 2011, was driven by a favorable change in freestanding derivatives of $3.9 billion, which 100 Table of Contents was partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives of $583 million primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. The $3.9 billion favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of falling long term and mid term interest rates and equity market movements and volatility. Long term and mid term interest rates fell more in 2011 than in 2010 which had a positive impact of $2.1 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $670 million of which was attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. The impact of equity market movements and volatility in 2011 compared to 2010 had a positive impact of $1.5 billion on our equity derivatives, which was primarily attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). The fair value of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk, which is unhedged. The $583 million unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to hedged risks relating to changes in market factors of $1.6 billion and an unfavorable change in other unhedged non market risks of $308 million, partially offset by a favorable change in unhedged risks for changes in the adjustment for nonperformance risk of $1.3 billion. The aforementioned $1.6 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was more than offset by favorable changes on freestanding derivatives that hedge these risks, which are described in the preceding paragraphs. The increase in net investment losses primarily reflects impairments on Greece sovereign debt securities, intent to sell impairments on other sovereign debt securities due to the repositioning of the ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, intent to sell impairments related to the Divested Businesses, and lower net gains on sales of fixed maturity and equity securities. These losses were partially offset by net gains on the sales of certain real estate investments and reductions in the mortgage valuation allowance reflecting improving real estate market fundamentals. Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, related to the Divested Businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), decreased $152 million to a loss of $41 million in 2011 compared to a gain of $111 million in 2010. Included in this loss was a reduction in total revenues of $73 million and an increase in total expenses of $79 million. As previously mentioned, the Divested Businesses include certain operations of MetLife Bank and the Caribbean Business. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $3.1 billion, or 31% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1.2 billion, or 30% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for 2010. The Companys 2011 and 2010 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax differences. As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, we use operating earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders, respectively. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.5 billion to $5.3 billion in 2011 from $3.8 billion in 2010. 101 Table of Contents Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating earnings available to common shareholders Year Ended December 31, 2011 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 2,629 $ 1,419 $ 1,405 $ 90 $ 1,190 $ 782 $ (564 ) $ 6,951 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 53 84 23 (9 ) (221 ) (616 ) (181 ) (867 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 1,849 1,747 366 (12 ) 200 785 (111 ) 4,824 Less: Other adjustments to continuingoperations (1) (125 ) (777 ) 91 38 (441 ) (427 ) (1,641 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (623 ) (368 ) (166 ) 7 (3 ) 18 290 (845 ) Operating earnings $ 1,475 $ 733 $ 1,091 $ 104 $ 1,176 $ 1,036 (135 ) 5,480 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (257 ) $ 5,358 Year Ended December 31, 2010 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 1,367 $ 792 $ 1,020 $ 295 $ 2 $ (155 ) $ (574 ) $ 2,747 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (9 ) (280 ) (530 ) (408 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 235 (162 ) (1 ) (144 ) (347 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Other adjustments to continuingoperations (1) (244 ) (381 ) 140 12 (439 ) (2 ) (914 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (28 ) (4 ) (54 ) 3 49 225 188 379 Operating earnings $ 1,321 $ 803 $ 920 $ 300 $ 94 $ 686 (169 ) 3,955 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (291 ) $ 3,833 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 102 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses Year Ended December 31, 2011 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 27,841 $ 9,015 $ 8,613 $ 3,217 $ 8,822 $ 10,538 $ 2,216 $ 70,262 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 53 84 23 (9 ) (221 ) (616 ) (181 ) (867 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 1,849 1,747 366 (12 ) 200 785 (111 ) 4,824 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 14 14 Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (224 ) 78 145 (407 ) 50 1,265 907 Total operating revenues $ 26,149 $ 7,106 $ 8,079 $ 3,238 $ 9,250 $ 10,319 $ 1,243 $ 65,384 Total expenses $ 23,795 $ 6,833 $ 6,454 $ 3,162 $ 6,994 $ 9,376 $ 3,622 $ 60,236 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) (85 ) 638 19 572 Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) 217 54 (464 ) 491 1,692 1,990 Total operating expenses $ 23,880 $ 5,978 $ 6,400 $ 3,162 $ 7,439 $ 8,885 $ 1,930 $ 57,674 Year Ended December 31, 2010 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 26,444 $ 6,849 $ 7,568 $ 3,146 $ 669 $ 5,685 $ 1,904 $ 52,265 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (9 ) (280 ) (530 ) (408 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 235 (162 ) (1 ) (144 ) (347 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 1 1 Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (151 ) (39 ) 190 116 (72 ) 1,450 1,494 Total operating revenues $ 26,276 $ 6,514 $ 7,364 $ 3,154 $ 706 $ 6,384 $ 1,045 $ 51,443 Total expenses $ 24,338 $ 5,622 $ 5,999 $ 2,781 $ 664 $ 5,917 $ 3,032 $ 48,353 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 90 35 125 Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) 4 307 50 104 367 1,452 2,284 Total operating expenses $ 24,244 $ 5,280 $ 5,949 $ 2,781 $ 560 $ 5,550 $ 1,580 $ 45,944 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 103 Table of Contents Consolidated Results Operating Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 36,269 $ 27,071 $ 9,198 34.0 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 7,528 5,817 1,711 29.4 % Net investment income 19,676 16,880 2,796 16.6 % Other revenues 1,911 1,675 236 14.1 % Total operating revenues 65,384 51,443 13,941 27.1 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 36,227 29,972 6,255 20.9 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 6,057 4,697 1,360 29.0 % Capitalization of DAC (6,849 ) (3,299 ) (3,550 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 4,799 2,802 1,997 71.3 % Amortization of negative VOBA (619 ) (57 ) (562 ) Interest expense on debt 1,305 1,139 166 14.6 % Other expenses 16,754 10,690 6,064 56.7 % Total operating expenses 57,674 45,944 11,730 25.5 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 2,230 1,544 686 44.4 % Operating earnings 5,480 3,955 1,525 38.6 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ 5,358 $ 3,833 $ 1,525 39.8 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The increase in operating earnings reflects the impact of the Acquisition with the corresponding effects on each of our financial statement lines in both Japan and Other International Regions. Further trends and matters impacting our business and the comparison to 2010 results are discussed below. Positive results from strong sales in 2011 were offset by losses from severe weather and the impact of the low interest rate environment. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a slightly positive impact on results compared to 2010. In 2011, we benefited from strong sales as well as growth and higher persistency in our business, across many of our products. As a result, we experienced growth in our investment portfolio, as well as our average separate account assets, generating both higher net investment income of $479 million and higher policy fee income of $265 million. Since many of our products are interest spread based, the growth in our individual life, long term care (LTC) and structured settlement businesses also resulted in a $131 million increase in interest credited expenses. These increased sales also generated an increase in commission and other volume related expenses of $622 million, which was largely offset by an increase of $538 million in related DAC capitalization. In addition, other non variable expenses increased $73 million due to growth in our existing businesses. On an annual basis, we perform experience studies, as well as update our assumptions regarding both expected policyholder behaviors and the related investment environment. These updates, commonly known as unlocking events, result in changes to certain insurance related liabilities, DAC and revenue amortization. The impact of updates to our assumptions in both 2011 and 2010, resulted in a net increase to operating earnings of $23 million, in the current year. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we announced a reduction in our dividend scale related to our closed block. The impact of this action increased operating earnings by $54 million. 104 Table of Contents Severe weather during 2011 was the primary driver of our unfavorable claims experience in Auto & Home, which decreased operating earnings by $239 million. In addition, in the third quarter of 2011, we incurred a $117 million charge to increase reserves in connection with our use of the Death Master File, impacting primarily Insurance Products. These events overshadowed favorable claims experience in our dental and disability businesses and strong mortality gains in our group life business, which, combined, improved operating earnings by $100 million. Market factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued to be a challenge during 2011. Also in 2011, equity markets remained relatively flat compared to much stronger 2010 equity market performance. Investment yields were negatively impacted by the current low interest rate environment and lower returns in the equity markets, partially offset by improving real estate markets, resulting in a $157 million decrease in net investment income. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and certain insurance related liabilities are sensitive to market fluctuations, which was the primary driver of higher expenses of $102 million in these categories. In particular, the less favorable 2011 investment markets caused acceleration of DAC amortization. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $119 million improvement in operating earnings, primarily driven by lower average crediting rates on our annuity and funding agreement businesses. The lower average crediting rates continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace. Also contributing to the decrease in interest credited is the impact from derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business. In addition, growth in our separate accounts due to favorable equity market performance in 2010 and stable equity markets in 2011 resulted in increased fees and other revenues of $79 million. Interest expense on debt increased $109 million primarily as a result of debt issued in the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in connection with the Acquisition and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) borrowings. The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011. Results from our mortgage loan servicing business were lower driven by an increase in expenses of $31 million in response to both a larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight. The Company also benefited from a higher tax benefit in 2011 of $88 million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of charges in 2010 related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the Health Care Act). The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs was reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the first quarter of 2010, when the legislation was enacted. The higher tax benefit was also a result of higher utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. 105 Table of Contents Insurance Products Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 16,949 $ 17,200 $ (251 ) (1.5 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,264 2,247 17 0.8 % Net investment income 6,107 6,068 39 0.6 % Other revenues 829 761 68 8.9 % Total operating revenues 26,149 26,276 (127 ) (0.5 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 18,707 19,075 (368 ) (1.9 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 997 963 34 3.5 % Capitalization of DAC (864 ) (841 ) (23 ) (2.7 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 897 966 (69 ) (7.1 )% Interest expense on debt 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 4,143 4,080 63 1.5 % Total operating expenses 23,880 24,244 (364 ) (1.5 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 794 711 83 11.7 % Operating earnings $ 1,475 $ 1,321 $ 154 11.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Strong underwriting results generated about half of our increase in operating earnings. The remaining increase resulted from the impact of annual assumption updates, lower policyholder dividends and higher fees from our variable and universal life business. These increases were dampened by the negative impacts of the sustained low interest rate environment. Growth in our open block traditional life and in our variable and universal life businesses was more than offset by declines in our group life and non medical health businesses, as well as the expected run off from our closed block business. Sustained high levels of unemployment and a challenging pricing environment continue to depress growth in many of our group insurance businesses. Our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and certain pricing actions, but this was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business. This reduction was mainly due to net customer cancellations and lower covered lives. Our LTC revenues were flat period over period, consistent with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010. Although revenues have declined from the prior year, current year premiums and deposits, along with an expansion of our securities lending program, resulted in an increase in our average invested assets, which contributed $189 million to operating earnings. Mirroring the growth in average invested assets in our individual life and LTC businesses, interest credited on long duration contracts and on our policyholder account balances increased by $76 million. The aforementioned increased sales of our individual variable and universal life products, which was mainly driven by our launch of a new product in the current year, coupled with ongoing organic growth in the business, increased operating earnings by $41 million. These increased sales also generated an increase in commission expenses, which was mostly offset by the capitalization of these expenses. Brokerdealer related revenues also increased during the year and were significantly offset by a corresponding increase in other expenses. In 2011, pricing actions and improved claims experience, mainly as a result of stabilizing benefits utilization, drove a $57 million increase in our dental results. Higher closures and lower incidences in 2011 contributed to the $43 million increase in our disability results. Our life businesses were essentially flat; however, lower claims incidence resulted in very strong group life mortality gains, which were offset by increased severity of claims in the variable and universal life businesses. On an annual basis, we perform experience studies, as well as update 106 Table of Contents our assumptions surrounding both expected policyholder behaviors and the related investment environment. These updates, commonly known as unlocking events, result in changes to certain insurance related liabilities, DAC and revenue amortization. The impact of updates to our assumptions, in both 2011 and 2010 primarily related to policyholder behaviors, such as projected premium assumptions and various factors impacting persistency, coupled with insurance related refinements, resulted in a net increase to operating earnings of $41 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was a $109 million charge, recorded in the third quarter of the current year, related to our use of the Death Master File, in both our group and individual life businesses. Refinements in our DAC model in both years as well as the impact of higher amortization in 2010 contributed to a $37 million net decrease in amortization. The higher level of amortization in 2010 was primarily due to the emergence of actual premium and lapse information which differed from managements expectations. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we announced a reduction to our dividend scale related to our closed block. The impact of this action increased operating earnings by $54 million. Market factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued to be a challenge during 2011. Investment yields were negatively impacted by lower returns on allocated equity and lower returns in the equity markets, partially offset by improving real estate markets. Unlike in Retirement Products and Corporate Benefit Funding, a reduction in investment yield does not necessarily drive a corresponding change in the rates credited on policyholder account balances or amounts held for future policyholder benefits. The reduction in investment yield resulted in a $164 million decrease in operating earnings. Partially offsetting this decline was the impact of updating projected market factors as part of our aforementioned annual update to assumptions. This update resulted in an unlocking event, resulting in a $32 million increase to operating earnings. Retirement Products Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 1,141 $ 875 $ 266 30.4 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,463 2,024 439 21.7 % Net investment income 3,195 3,395 (200 ) (5.9 )% Other revenues 307 220 87 39.5 % Total operating revenues 7,106 6,514 592 9.1 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 1,846 1,487 359 24.1 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,595 1,612 (17 ) (1.1 )% Capitalization of DAC (1,612 ) (1,067 ) (545 ) (51.1 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1,004 808 196 24.3 % Interest expense on debt 2 3 (1 ) (33.3 )% Other expenses 3,143 2,437 706 29.0 % Total operating expenses 5,978 5,280 698 13.2 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 395 431 (36 ) (8.4 )% Operating earnings $ 733 $ 803 $ (70 ) (8.7 )% Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Total annuity sales increased 51% to $30.4 billion due to strong growth in variable annuities across all distribution channels. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the introduction of a new higher benefit, lower risk variable annuity rider and changes in competitors offerings which, we believe, made our products more attractive. We have launched several changes to the products and riders we offer that we expect will reduce sales volumes in 2012, as we manage these sales volumes to strike the right balance among growth, profitability and risk. Total annuity net flows were $16.2 billion, higher than in 2010. Changes in interest rates 107 Table of Contents and equity markets can significantly impact our earnings. In 2011, interest rates declined while equity markets remained relatively flat compared to much stronger 2010 equity market performance. Operating earnings were down 9% mainly due to these market factors. Strong sales and higher persistency in 2011, along with the impact of an increase in allocated equity, increased operating earnings by $147 million. The strong sales of variable annuities increased our average separate account assets and, as a result, we generated higher asset based fee revenue on the separate account assets and higher net investment income, partially offset by increases in DAC amortization. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was an increase in variable expenses, primarily related to new business commissions and asset based commissions of $38 million, net of related DAC capitalization. Other non variable expenses also increased $16 million due to growth in the business. Investment market performance reduced our operating earnings by $56 million. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization, as well as certain insurance related liabilities, are sensitive to market fluctuations, which was the primary driver of higher expenses in these categories. In particular, the less favorable 2011 equity markets when compared to 2010 caused an acceleration of DAC amortization. Lower investment returns on certain limited partnerships and lower returns on allocated equity also contributed to the decline in operating earnings. Partially offsetting these decreases was an improvement in operating earnings, primarily driven by lower average crediting rates on annuity fixed rate funds. Lower average crediting rates continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace. Growth in our separate accounts, due to favorable equity market performance in 2010 and 2011, resulted in increased fees and other revenues. To better align with hedged risks, certain elements of our variable annuity hedging program that were previously recorded in net investment income were recorded in net derivative gains (losses) beginning in 2011 which resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of $77 million. Lower income annuity mortality gains of $18 million also reduced operating earnings in 2011. We review and update our long term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance related liabilities and DAC annually, which may result in changes and are recorded in the fourth quarter each year. This annual update of assumptions, other insurance liability refinements and DAC model revisions made during the year, contributed to a net operating earnings reduction of $12 million. Corporate Benefit Funding Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 2,418 $ 1,938 $ 480 24.8 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 231 226 5 2.2 % Net investment income 5,181 4,954 227 4.6 % Other revenues 249 246 3 1.2 % Total operating revenues 8,079 7,364 715 9.7 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 4,594 4,041 553 13.7 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,321 1,445 (124 ) (8.6 )% Capitalization of DAC (27 ) (19 ) (8 ) (42.1 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 17 16 1 6.3 % Interest expense on debt 8 6 2 33.3 % Other expenses 487 460 27 5.9 % Total operating expenses 6,400 5,949 451 7.6 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 588 495 93 18.8 % Operating earnings $ 1,091 $ 920 $ 171 18.6 % 108 Table of Contents Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Corporate Benefit Funding had strong pension closeout sales in the U.K., and strong sales of structured settlements. Although the combination of poor equity returns and the low interest rate environment has resulted in underfunded pension plans, which reduces our customers flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts, sales in the U.K. remained strong as we continue to penetrate that market. Sales in our structured settlement business were strong as we remain very competitive in the marketplace. Premiums for these businesses were almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits. However, current year premiums, deposits, funding agreement issuances, increased allocated equity, and the expansion of our securities lending program, all contributed to the growth of our average invested assets, which led to an increase in net investment income of $167 million. Deposits into separate accounts, including guaranteed interest contracts, and corporate owned life insurance, increased significantly resulting in a $9 million increase in advisory fees and an $8 million increase in premium tax. However, these expenses are offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. Market factors, including the current low interest rate environment, have negatively impacted our investment returns by $19 million. These lower investment returns include the impact of returns on invested economic capital. The low interest rate environment was also the primary driver of the decrease in interest credited to policyholders of $81 million. Many of our funding agreement and guaranteed interest contract liabilities are tied to market indices. Interest rates on new business were set lower, as were the rates on existing business with terms that can fluctuate. Also contributing to the decrease in interest credited is the impact from derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business. Commensurate with our strong sales of structured settlements, the interest credited expense associated with these insurance liabilities increased $26 million. The Companys use of the Death Master File in connection with our post retirement benefit business resulted in a charge in the third quarter of the current year of $8 million. Other insurance liability refinements and mortality results negatively impacted our year over year operating earnings by $20 million. Auto & Home Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 3,000 $ 2,923 $ 77 2.6 % Net investment income 205 209 (4 ) (1.9 )% Other revenues 33 22 11 50.0 % Total operating revenues 3,238 3,154 84 2.7 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 2,375 2,021 354 17.5 % Capitalization of DAC (453 ) (448 ) (5 ) (1.1 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 448 439 9 2.1 % Other expenses 792 769 23 3.0 % Total operating expenses 3,162 2,781 381 13.7 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) 73 (101 ) Operating earnings $ 104 $ 300 $ (196 ) (65.3 )% Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. In 2011, operating results were negatively impacted by severe weather including record numbers of tornadoes in the second quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter. Policy sales decreased as the housing and new 109 Table of Contents automobile sales markets remained sluggish, resulting in a decrease in exposures. However, average premium per policy increased for both our homeowners and auto policies, more than offsetting the negative impact from the decrease in exposures. Adverse claims experience was the primary driver of the decrease in operating earnings. Catastrophe related losses increased $187 million compared to 2010 mainly due to severe storm activity in the U.S. during the second and third quarters of 2011, which resulted in $261 million of losses. The second quarter included catastrophe related losses mainly due to a record number of tornadoes for a one month period that resulted in damage in many states. The third quarter included catastrophe related losses resulting from the impact from Hurricane Irene. In addition, current year non catastrophe claim costs increased $75 million as a result of higher claim frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses due primarily to more severe winter weather in the first quarter of 2011 and to non catastrophe wind and hail through the remainder of the year. The negative impact of these items was partially offset by additional favorable development of prior year losses of $23 million. The increase in average premium per policy in both our homeowners and auto businesses improved operating earnings by $60 million and the decrease in exposures resulted in a $4 million decrease in operating earnings as the negative impact from lower premiums exceeded the positive impact from lower claims. Exposures are primarily each automobile for the auto line of business and each residence for the homeowners line of business. The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 104.9% in 2011 from 94.6% in 2010. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, was 89.1% in 2011 compared to 88.1% in 2010. Higher commissions, resulting from the increase in average premium per policy, coupled with an increase in other volume related expenses contributed to the decrease in operating earnings. This increase is included in the $18 million increase in other expenses, including the net change in DAC. Japan Years Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 6,325 $ 499 $ 5,826 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 824 55 769 Net investment income 2,079 145 1,934 Other revenues 22 7 15 Total operating revenues 9,250 706 8,544 OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 3,973 309 3,664 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,561 123 1,438 Capitalization of DAC (2,250 ) (149 ) (2,101 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1,312 82 1,230 Amortization of negative VOBA (555 ) (49 ) (506 ) Other expenses 3,398 244 3,154 Total operating expenses 7,439 560 6,879 Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 635 52 583 Operating earnings $ 1,176 $ 94 $ 1,082 Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Our Japan operation is comprised of the Japanese business acquired in the Acquisition and remains among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan. The stability of this business is evidenced by a solvency margin ratio 110 Table of Contents significantly in excess of the legally mandated solvency margin in Japan and above average with respect to the industry. Through our Japan operation, we provide accident and health insurance, life insurance, annuities and endowment products to both individuals and groups. Japans operating earnings for 2010 include one month of results from the ALICO operations. The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although we expect modest growth in the Japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. Despite the impact of the earthquake and tsunami, our sales results continued to show steady growth and improvement across our captive agent, independent agent, broker, bancassurance, and direct marketing distribution channels. Japan reported premiums, fees and other revenues of $7.2 billion for 2011, including $4.3 billion from accident and health insurance and $2.7 billion from life insurance products distributed through our multi distribution platform. In addition, during 2011, the Company incurred $39 million of incremental insurance claims and operating expenses related to the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Other International Regions Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 6,426 $ 3,625 $ 2,801 77.3 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1,746 1,265 481 38.0 % Net investment income 1,995 1,466 529 36.1 % Other revenues 152 28 124 Total operating revenues 10,319 6,384 3,935 61.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 4,724 3,053 1,671 54.7 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 583 554 29 5.2 % Capitalization of DAC (1,643 ) (775 ) (868 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1,120 490 630 Amortization of negative VOBA (64 ) (8 ) (56 ) Interest expense on debt 1 3 (2 ) (66.7 )% Other expenses 4,164 2,233 1,931 86.5 % Total operating expenses 8,885 5,550 3,335 60.1 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 398 148 250 Operating earnings $ 1,036 $ 686 $ 350 51.0 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Sales results continued to show steady growth and improvement, with increases over 2010 in essentially all of our businesses. In the Asia Pacific region, sales continued to grow, driven by strong variable universal life sales, the launch of a whole life cancer product in Korea and higher group sales in the Australia business. In Latin America, accident and health sales increased throughout the region. In addition, there was strong retirement sales growth in Mexico, as well as strong growth in Chiles immediate annuity products. Our business in Europe experienced higher credit life sales and continued growth in our variable annuity business. Reported operating earnings increased over 2010 as a result of the inclusion of a full year of results of the ALICO operations other than Japan for 2011 compared to one month of results for 2010. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $19 million for 2011 compared to 2010. 111 Table of Contents In addition to the increase in operating earnings due to the ALICO operations other than Japan, the current year benefited from business growth, most notably in Mexico, Korea and Ireland. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the Japan reinsurance business mainly due to market performance. The impact of the sale of the Companys interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., LTD (MSI MetLife) on April 1, 2011 also decreased operating results for 2011, as no earnings were recognized in the current year. Net investment income increased reflecting an increase from growth in average invested assets and a decrease from lower yields. The increase in average invested assets reflects the Acquisition and growth in our businesses. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, investment earnings and interest credited related to contractholder directed unit linked investments were excluded from operating revenues and operating expenses, as the contractholder, and not the Company, directs the investment of the funds. This change in presentation had no impact on operating earnings in the current period; however, it unfavorably impacted the change in net investment income in 2011, when compared to 2010 as positive returns were incurred in 2010 from recovering equity markets. The corresponding favorable impact is reflected in interest credited expense. Decreased yields reflect the decreased operating joint venture returns from the sale of MSI MetLife in second quarter of 2011, the Acquisition, as ALICOs acquired investment portfolio has a larger allocation to lower yielding government securities, partially offset by the impact of higher inflation. The change in net investment income from inflation was offset by a similar change in the related insurance liabilities. In addition to an increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased primarily due to higher commissions and compensation expenses in Korea, Mexico, Brazil and Ireland due to business growth, a portion which is offset by DAC capitalization. Corporate & Other Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 10 $ 11 $ (1 ) (9.1 )% Net investment income 914 643 271 42.1 % Other revenues 319 391 (72 ) (18.4 )% Total operating revenues 1,243 1,045 198 18.9 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 8 (14 ) 22 Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1 1 % Interest expense on debt 1,294 1,126 168 14.9 % Other expenses 627 467 160 34.3 % Total operating expenses 1,930 1,580 350 22.2 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (552 ) (366 ) (186 ) (50.8 )% Operating earnings (135 ) (169 ) 34 20.1 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (257 ) $ (291 ) $ 34 11.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. MetLife, Inc. completed four debt financings in August 2010 in connection with the Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of 5.875% senior notes, and $250 million of floating rate senior notes. MetLife, Inc. also issued debt securities in November 2010, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used to finance the Acquisition. 112 Table of Contents Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings each increased $34 million, primarily due to higher net investment income and a higher tax benefit. These increases were partially offset by an increase in interest expense of $109 million, primarily resulting from the 2010 debt issuances, a decrease in earnings related to resolutions of certain legal matters in 2010 and an increase in other expenses. Net investment income increased $176 million due to an increase of $130 million from higher yields and an increase of $46 million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were primarily impacted by the decline in interest rates, as lower crediting rates were paid to the segments on the economic capital invested on their behalf period over period, lower returns in equity markets and lower returns on alternative investments. An increase in the average invested assets was primarily due to proceeds from the debt issuances referenced above. Our investments primarily include structured securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation to certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement, including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures, trading and other securities and equity securities. Corporate & Other also benefited in 2011 from a higher tax benefit of $133 million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of charges in 2010 related to the Health Care Act. The higher tax benefit was also a result of higher utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. Results from our mortgage loan servicing business were lower, driven by an increase in expenses of $31 million in response to both a larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight. In addition hedging results were lower by $21 million. The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011. In addition, the Company increased advertising costs by $15 million and incurred higher internal resources costs for associates committed to the Acquisition of $13 million. Minor fluctuations in various other expense categories, such as interest on uncertain tax positions, and discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, offset each other and resulted in a small increase to earnings. Additionally, the resolutions of certain legal matters in the prior period resulted in $39 million of lower operating earnings for 2011. 113 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in several of our businesses, which, together with improved overall market conditions compared to conditions a year ago, positively impacted our results most significantly through increased net cash flows, improved yields on our investment portfolio and increased policy fee income. Sales of our domestic annuity products were up 14%, driven by an increase in variable annuity sales compared with the prior year. We benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products. Market penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the U.K.; however, although improving, our domestic pension closeout business has been adversely impacted by a combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. While we experienced growth in our group life business, sales of non medical health and individual life products declined. Sales of new homeowner and auto policies increased 11% and 4%, respectively, as the housing and automobile markets have improved. We experienced a 30% increase in sales of retirement and savings products abroad. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) Revenues Premiums $ 27,071 $ 26,157 $ 914 3.5 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 6,028 5,197 831 16.0 % Net investment income 17,511 14,741 2,770 18.8 % Other revenues 2,328 2,329 (1 ) % Net investment gains (losses) (408 ) (2,901 ) 2,493 85.9 % Net derivative gains (losses) (265 ) (4,866 ) 4,601 94.6 % Total revenues 52,265 40,657 11,608 28.6 % Expenses Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 30,670 29,652 1,018 3.4 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 4,919 4,845 74 1.5 % Capitalization of DAC (3,299 ) (2,976 ) (323 ) (10.9 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 2,843 1,289 1,554 Amortization of negative VOBA (64 ) (64 ) Interest expense on debt 1,550 1,044 506 48.5 % Other expenses 11,734 11,164 570 5.1 % Total expenses 48,353 45,018 3,335 7.4 % Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax 3,912 (4,361 ) 8,273 Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 1,165 (2,025 ) 3,190 Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax 2,747 (2,336 ) 5,083 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 39 58 (19 ) (32.8 )% Net income (loss) 2,786 (2,278 ) 5,064 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) (32 ) 28 87.5 % Net income (loss) attributable to MetLife, Inc. 2,790 (2,246 ) 5,036 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Preferred stock redemption premium % Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.s common shareholders $ 2,668 $ (2,368 ) $ 5,036 114 Table of Contents Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During the year ended December 31, 2010, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses was from the inclusion of one month of ALICO results in 2010. The change was predominantly due to a $3.0 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) and a $1.6 billion favorable change in net investment gains (losses). Offsetting these favorable variances totaling $4.6 billion were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses) of $518 million, net of income tax, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization, resulting in a total favorable variance related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses), net of related adjustments and income tax, of $4.1 billion. The favorable variance in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion, from losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 to losses of $172 million in 2010 was primarily driven by a favorable change in freestanding derivatives of $4.4 billion, comprised of a $4.5 billion favorable change from losses in the prior year of $4.3 billion to gains in the current year of $203 million and $123 million in ALICO freestanding derivative losses. This favorable variance was partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees of $1.4 billion from gains in the prior year of $1.1 billion to losses in the current year of $257 million, net of $5 million in ALICO embedded derivative gains. We use freestanding interest rate, currency, credit and equity derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded derivatives within certain of our variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. The $4.5 billion favorable variance in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year than the current year, a greater decrease in equity volatility in the prior year as compared to the current year, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. Falling long term and mid term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long term and mid term interest rates in the prior year had a positive impact of $2.6 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $931 million of which is attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities, which are accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, stronger equity market recovery and lower equity market volatility in the prior year as compared to the current year had a positive impact of $1.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we use to hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. U.S. dollar strengthening had a positive impact of $554 million on certain of our foreign currency derivatives, which are used to hedge foreign denominated asset and liability exposures. Finally, widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector had a positive impact of $221 million on our purchased protection credit derivatives. Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives also include an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the related liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The $1.4 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of market factors, including falling long term and mid term interest rates, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, equity volatility and equity market movements. Falling long term and mid term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long term and mid term interest rates in the prior year had a negative impact of $1.4 billion. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $468 million. Equity volatility decreased more in the prior year than in the current year causing a negative impact of $284 million, and a stronger recovery in the equity markets in the prior year than in the current year had a negative impact of $228 million. The unfavorable impact from these hedged risks was partially offset by a favorable change related to the adjustment for nonperformance risk of $1.2 billion, from losses of $1.3 billion in 2009 to losses of $62 million in 2010. This $62 million loss was net of a $621 million loss related to a refinement in estimating the spreads used in the adjustment for nonperformance risk made in the second quarter of 2010. Gains on the freestanding derivatives that hedged these embedded derivative risks largely offset the change in liabilities attributable to market factors, excluding the adjustment for nonperformance risk, which does not have an economic impact on the Company. 115 Table of Contents Improved or stabilizing market conditions across several invested asset classes and sectors as compared to the prior year resulted in decreases in impairments and in net realized losses from sales and disposals of investments in most components of our investment portfolio. These decreases, coupled with a decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage loans due to improved market conditions, resulted in a $1.6 billion improvement in net investment gains (losses). Income from continuing operations, net of income tax for 2010 includes $138 million of expenses related to the acquisition and integration of ALICO. These expenses, which primarily consisted of investment banking and legal fees, are recorded in Corporate & Other and are not a component of operating earnings. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.2 billion, or 30% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with income tax benefit of $2.0 billion, or 46% of the loss from continuing operations before benefit for income tax, for the comparable 2009 period. The Companys 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax differences. As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, we use operating earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior managements and many other employees performance is evaluated for the purpose of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased by $1.6 billion to $3.8 billion in 2010 from $2.2 billion in 2009. 116 Table of Contents Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating earnings available to common shareholders Year Ended December 31, 2010 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 1,367 $ 792 $ 1,020 $ 295 $ 2 $ (155 ) $ (574 ) $ 2,747 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (9 ) (280 ) (530 ) (408 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 235 (162 ) (1 ) (144 ) (347 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Other adjustments to continuing operations (1) (244 ) (381 ) 140 12 (439 ) (2 ) (914 ) Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit (28 ) (4 ) (54 ) 3 49 225 188 379 Operating earnings $ 1,321 $ 803 $ 920 $ 300 $ 94 $ 686 (169 ) 3,955 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (291 ) $ 3,833 Year Ended December 31, 2009 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 000000000 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax $ (422 ) $ (466 ) $ (746 ) $ 321 $ $ (289 ) $ (734 ) $ (2,336 ) Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (100 ) (269 ) (2,901 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,175 ) (672 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Other adjustments to continuing operations (1) (146 ) 379 121 (206 ) 332 480 Less: Provision for income tax (expense) benefit 840 465 711 1 364 216 2,597 Operating earnings $ 1,142 $ 398 $ 580 $ 322 $ $ 451 (539 ) 2,354 Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ (661 ) $ 2,232 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 117 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses Year Ended December 31, 2010 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 26,444 $ 6,849 $ 7,568 $ 3,146 $ 669 $ 5,685 $ 1,904 $ 52,265 Less: Net investment gains (losses) 103 139 176 (7 ) (9 ) (280 ) (530 ) (408 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) 215 235 (162 ) (1 ) (144 ) (347 ) (61 ) (265 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 1 1 Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (151 ) (39 ) 190 116 (72 ) 1,450 1,494 Total operating revenues $ 26,276 $ 6,514 $ 7,364 $ 3,154 $ 706 $ 6,384 $ 1,045 $ 51,443 Total expenses $ 24,338 $ 5,622 $ 5,999 $ 2,781 $ 664 $ 5,917 $ 3,032 $ 48,353 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 90 35 125 Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) 4 307 50 104 367 1,452 2,284 Total operating expenses $ 24,244 $ 5,280 $ 5,949 $ 2,781 $ 560 $ 5,550 $ 1,580 $ 45,944 Year Ended December 31, 2009 InsuranceProducts RetirementProducts CorporateBenefitFunding Auto &Home Japan OtherInternationalRegions Corporate& Other Total (In millions) Total revenues $ 23,476 $ 3,975 $ 5,231 $ 3,113 $ $ 3,997 $ 865 $ 40,657 Less: Net investment gains (losses) (472 ) (533 ) (1,486 ) (41 ) (100 ) (269 ) (2,901 ) Less: Net derivative gains (losses) (1,786 ) (1,175 ) (672 ) 39 (798 ) (474 ) (4,866 ) Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) (27 ) (27 ) Less: Other adjustments to revenues (1) (81 ) (51 ) 184 (169 ) 1,283 1,166 Total operating revenues $ 25,842 $ 5,734 $ 7,205 $ 3,115 $ $ 5,064 $ 325 $ 47,285 Total expenses $ 24,165 $ 4,690 $ 6,400 $ 2,697 $ $ 4,495 $ 2,571 $ 45,018 Less: Adjustments related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) 39 (739 ) (700 ) Less: Other adjustments to expenses (1) (1 ) 309 63 37 951 1,359 Total operating expenses $ 24,127 $ 5,120 $ 6,337 $ 2,697 $ $ 4,458 $ 1,620 $ 44,359 (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments. 118 Table of Contents Consolidated Results Operating Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 27,071 $ 26,157 $ 914 3.5 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 5,817 5,055 762 15.1 % Net investment income 16,880 14,600 2,280 15.6 % Other revenues 1,675 1,473 202 13.7 % Total operating revenues 51,443 47,285 4,158 8.8 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 29,972 29,104 868 3.0 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 4,697 4,849 (152 ) (3.1 )% Capitalization of DAC (3,299 ) (2,976 ) (323 ) (10.9 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 2,802 2,186 616 28.2 % Amortization of negative VOBA (57 ) (57 ) Interest expense on debt 1,139 1,044 95 9.1 % Other expenses 10,690 10,152 538 5.3 % Total operating expenses 45,944 44,359 1,585 3.6 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 1,544 572 972 Operating earnings 3,955 2,354 1,601 68.0 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Operating earnings available to common shareholders $ 3,833 $ 2,232 $ 1,601 71.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver of the increase in operating earnings as evidenced by higher net investment income and an increase in average separate account balances, which resulted in an increase in policy fee income. Partially offsetting this improvement was an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and DSI. The increase in operating earnings also includes the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2010. This improved reported operating earnings by $37 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Furthermore, the 2010 period also includes one month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The current period also benefited from the dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of 2009. The improvement in 2010 results compared to 2009 was partially offset by the prior period impact of pesification in Argentina and unfavorable claims experience. Net investment income increased from higher yields and growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity markets year over year on real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, and by the effects of continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. Growth in our investment portfolio was primarily due to the Acquisition and positive net cash flows from growth in our domestic individual and group life businesses, as well as certain international businesses, higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative counterparties, as well as the temporary investment of proceeds from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. With the exception of the cash flows from such securities issuances, which were temporarily invested in lower yielding liquid investments, we continued to reposition the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments. Since many of our products are interest spread based, higher net investment income is typically offset by higher interest credited expense. However, interest credited expense, including amounts reflected in policyholder 119 Table of Contents benefits and claims, decreased primarily in our domestic funding agreement business, which experienced lower average crediting rates combined with lower average account balances. Our fixed annuities business also experienced lower crediting rates. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily the London Inter Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), which were lower than the prior year. The impact from the growth in our structured settlement, LTC and disability businesses partially offset those decreases in interest credited expense. A significant increase in average separate account balances is largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $444 million, most notably in our Retirement Products segment. In addition, changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased policy fees by $52 million. The improvement in fees is partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization of $325 million. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate accounts. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. A portion of the increase in amortization was due to the impact of higher current year gross margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization for our Insurance Products segment, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in the current period. Claims experience varied amongst our businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $153 million to operating earnings compared to the prior year. We had unfavorable claims experience in our Auto & Home segment, primarily due to increased catastrophes. Our Insurance Products segment experienced mixed claims experience with a net unfavorable impact. We experienced less favorable mortality experience in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment despite favorable experience in our structured settlements business. Interest expense increased $62 million primarily as a result of the full year impact of debt issuances in 2009 and of senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements. In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of a $95 million benefit recorded in the prior period related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as a $60 million increase related to the investment and growth in our international businesses. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates also increased other expenses by $54 million. In addition, the current period includes a $14 million increase in charitable contributions and $13 million of costs associated with the integration of ALICO. Offsetting these increases was a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting, rent and postemployment related costs. In addition, we experienced a $47 million decline in market driven expenses, primarily pension and post retirement benefit costs. Also contributing to the decrease was a $35 million reduction in real estate related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs. The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings of $86 million for our Other International Regions segment, resulting from a $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 due to a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit of $52 million in the current year from additional permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. In addition, in 2009 we had a larger benefit of $82 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. 120 Table of Contents Insurance Products Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 17,200 $ 17,168 $ 32 0.2 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,247 2,281 (34 ) (1.5 )% Net investment income 6,068 5,614 454 8.1 % Other revenues 761 779 (18 ) (2.3 )% Total operating revenues 26,276 25,842 434 1.7 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 19,075 19,111 (36 ) (0.2 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 963 952 11 1.2 % Capitalization of DAC (841 ) (873 ) 32 3.7 % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 966 725 241 33.2 % Interest expense on debt 1 6 (5 ) (83.3 )% Other expenses 4,080 4,206 (126 ) (3.0 )% Total operating expenses 24,244 24,127 117 0.5 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 711 573 138 24.1 % Operating earnings $ 1,321 $ 1,142 $ 179 15.7 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improvement in the global financial markets had a positive impact on net investment income, which contributed to the increase in Insurance Products operating earnings. In addition, we experienced overall modest revenue growth in several of our businesses despite this challenging environment. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across most of our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. Growth in our group life business was dampened by a decline in our non medical health and individual life businesses. However, our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and pricing actions, partially offset by lower persistency and the loss of existing subscribers, driven by high unemployment. This business also experienced more stable utilization and benefits costs in the current year. The revenue growth from our dental business was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business, mainly due to net customer cancellations, changes in benefit levels and lower covered lives. Our long term care revenues were flat year over year, concurrent with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010. In our individual life business, the change in revenues was suppressed by the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the positive resolution of certain legal matters. Excluding this impact, the traditional life business experienced 8% growth in our open block of business. The expected run off of our closed block more than offset this growth. The significant components of the $179 million increase in operating earnings were an improvement in net investment income and the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain policyholders, coupled with lower expenses. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in DAC amortization, as well as net unfavorable claims experience across several of our businesses. Higher net investment income of $295 million was due to a $202 million increase from growth in average invested assets and a $93 million increase from higher yields. Growth in the investment portfolio was attributed to an increase in net cash flows from the majority of our businesses. The increase in yields was largely due to the positive effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, structured finance securities (comprised of mortgage and asset backed securities) and U.S. Treasury and agency securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets which provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. 121 Table of Contents The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a $36 million increase in interest credited on long duration contracts, which is reflected in the change in policyholder benefits and dividends, primarily due to growth in future policyholder benefits in our LTC and disability businesses. Other expenses decreased by $82 million, largely due to a decrease of $40 million from the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, such as pension and post retirement benefit costs. In addition, a decrease in information technology expenses of $29 million contributed to the improvement in operating earnings. A decrease in variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, further reduced expenses by $11 million, a portion of which is offset by DAC capitalization. The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in 2010. Claims experience varied amongst Insurance Products businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $42 million to operating earnings. We experienced excellent mortality results in our group life business due to a decrease in severity, as well as favorable reserve refinements in 2010. In addition, an improvement in our LTC results was driven by favorable claim experience mainly due to higher terminations and less claimants in 2010, coupled with the impact of unfavorable reserve refinements in 2009. Our improved dental results were driven by higher enrollment and pricing actions, as well as improved claim experience in the current year. The impact of this positive experience was surpassed by solid, but less favorable mortality, in our individual life business combined with higher incidence and severity of group disability claims in the current year, and the impact of a gain from the recapture of a reinsurance agreement in 2009. Higher DAC amortization of $157 million was primarily driven by the impact of higher gross margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. In addition, the net impact of various model refinements in both 2010 and 2009 increased DAC amortization. Certain events reduced operating earnings, including the impact of a benefit being recorded in 2009 of $17 million related to the positive resolution of certain legal matters and an increase in current income tax expense of $27 million, resulting from an increase in our effective tax rate. Retirement Products Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 875 $ 920 $ (45 ) (4.9 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 2,024 1,543 481 31.2 % Net investment income 3,395 3,098 297 9.6 % Other revenues 220 173 47 27.2 % Total operating revenues 6,514 5,734 780 13.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 1,487 1,486 1 0.1 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,612 1,688 (76 ) (4.5 )% Capitalization of DAC (1,067 ) (1,067 ) % Amortization of DAC and VOBA 808 610 198 32.5 % Interest expense on debt 3 3 Other expenses 2,437 2,403 34 1.4 % Total operating expenses 5,280 5,120 160 3.1 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 431 216 215 99.5 % Operating earnings $ 803 $ 398 $ 405 122 Table of Contents Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. During 2010, overall annuity sales decreased 5% compared to 2009 as declines in fixed annuity sales were partially offset by increased sales of our variable annuity products. The financial market turmoil in early 2009 resulted in extraordinarily high sales of fixed annuity products in 2009. The high sales level was not expected to continue after the financial markets returned to more stable levels. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the expansion of alternative distribution channels and fewer competitors in the market place. Surrender rates for both our variable and fixed annuities remained low during the current period as we believe our customers continue to value our products compared to other alternatives in the marketplace. Interest rate and equity market changes were the primary driver of the $405 million increase in operating earnings, with the largest impact resulting from a $343 million increase in policy fees and other revenues and, a $193 million increase in net investment income, offset by a $132 million increase in DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and a $39 million increase in commission expense resulting from growth in annuity contract balances. A significant increase in average separate account balances was largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $343 million, partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate account. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. Financial market improvements also resulted in the increase in net investment income of $193 million as a $291 million increase from higher yields was partially offset by a $98 million decrease from a decline in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of the continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our investment portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding assets, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. Yields were also positively impacted by the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. Despite positive net cash flows, a reduction in the general account investment portfolio was due to the impact of more customers gaining confidence in the equity markets and, as a result, electing to transfer funds into our separate account investment options as market conditions improved. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer term liabilities, our investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets, in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. Annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, net of a decrease in paid claims, increased benefits by $13 million primarily from our annual unlocking of assumptions related to these liabilities. Interest credited expense decreased $49 million driven by lower average crediting rates on fixed annuities and higher amortization of excess interest reserve due to one large case surrender in 2010, partially offset by growth in our fixed annuity PABs. 123 Table of Contents Corporate Benefit Funding Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2010 2009 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 1,938 $ 2,264 $ (326 ) (14.4 )% Universal life and investment type product policy fees 226 176 50 28.4 % Net investment income 4,954 4,527 427 9.4 % Other revenues 246 238 8 3.4 % Total operating revenues 7,364 7,205 159 2.2 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 4,041 4,245 (204 ) (4.8 )% Interest credited to policyholder account balances 1,445 1,632 (187 ) (11.5 )% Capitalization of DAC (19 ) (14 ) (5 ) (35.7 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 16 15 1 6.7 % Interest expense on debt 6 3 3 100.0 % Other expenses 460 456 4 0.9 % Total operating expenses 5,949 6,337 (388 ) (6.1 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 495 288 207 71.9 % Operating earnings $ 920 $ 580 $ 340 58.6 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products and continued market penetration of our pension closeout business in the U.K. However, structured settlement premiums have declined $174 million, before income tax, from 2009 reflecting extraordinary sales in the fourth quarter of 2009. While market penetration continued in our pension closeout business in the U.K. as the number of sold cases increased, the average premium has declined, resulting in a decrease in premiums of $216 million, before income tax. Although improving, a combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans remaining underfunded, both in the U.S. and in the U.K., which reduces our customers flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts. For each of these businesses, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance liability that is established at the time we assume the risk under these contracts is typically equivalent to the premium recognized. The $340 million increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by an improvement in net investment income and the impact of lower crediting rates, partially offset by the impact of prior period favorable liability refinements and less favorable mortality. The primary driver of the $340 million increase in operating earnings was higher net investment income of $278 million, reflecting a $187 million increase from higher yields and a $91 million increase in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity markets on real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests. These improvements in yields were partially offset by decreased yields on fixed maturity securities due to the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this lower interest rate environment. Growth in the investment portfolio is due to an increase in average PABs and growth in the securities lending program. To manage the needs of our longer term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement. For our short term obligations, we invest primarily in structured finance securities, mortgage loans and investment grade 124 Table of Contents corporate fixed maturity securities. The yields on these short term investments have moved consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and U.S. Treasury, on which they are based. As many of our products are interest spread based, changes in net investment income are typically offset by a corresponding change in interest credited expense. However, interest credited expense decreased $122 million, primarily related to our funding agreement business as a result of lower average crediting rates combined with lower average account balances. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, which were lower than the prior year. Interest credited expense related to the structured settlement businesses increased $40 million as a result of the increase in the average policyholder liabilities. Mortality experience was mixed and reduced operating earnings in 2010 by $26 million. Less favorable mortality in our pension closeouts and corporate owned life insurance businesses compared to 2009 was only slightly offset by favorable mortality experience in our structured settlements business. Liability refinements in both 2010 and 2009 resulted in a $28 million decrease to operating earnings. These were largely offset by the impact of a charge in the 2009 period related to a refinement of a reinsurance recoverable in the small business recordkeeping business which increased operating earnings by $20 million. Auto & Home Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2010 2009 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 2,923 $ 2,902 $ 21 0.7 % Net investment income 209 180 29 16.1 % Other revenues 22 33 (11 ) (33.3 )% Total operating revenues 3,154 3,115 39 1.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 2,021 1,932 89 4.6 % Capitalization of DAC (448 ) (435 ) (13 ) (3.0 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 439 436 3 0.7 % Other expenses 769 764 5 0.7 % Total operating expenses 2,781 2,697 84 3.1 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 73 96 (23 ) (24.0 )% Operating earnings $ 300 $ 322 $ (22 ) (6.8 )% Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improving housing and automobile markets have provided opportunities that led to increased new business sales for both homeowners and auto policies in 2010. Sales of new policies increased 11% for our homeowners business and 4% for our auto business in 2010 compared to 2009. Average premium per policy also improved in 2010 over 2009 in our homeowners businesses but remained flat in our auto business. The primary driver of the $22 million decrease in operating earnings was unfavorable claims experience, partially offset by higher net investment income and increased premiums. Catastrophe related losses increased by $58 million compared to 2009 due to increases in both the number and severity of storms. The 2010 claim costs decreased $19 million as a result of lower frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses; however, this was partially offset by a $13 million increase in claims due to higher severity in our homeowners business. Also contributing to the decline in operating earnings was an increase of $7 million in loss adjusting expenses, primarily related to a decrease in our unallocated loss adjusting expense liabilities at the end of 2009. 125 Table of Contents The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, increasing to 94.6% in 2010 from 92.3% in 2009 and the favorable change in the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreasing to 88.1% in 2010 from 88.9% in 2009. A $19 million increase in net investment income partially offset the declines in operating earnings discussed above. Net investment income was higher primarily as a result of an increase in average invested assets, including changes in allocated equity, partially offset by a decrease in yields. This portfolio is comprised primarily of high quality municipal bonds. The increase in average premium per policy in our homeowners businesses improved operating earnings by $10 million as did an increase in exposures which improved operating earnings by $1 million. Exposures are primarily each automobile for the auto line of business and each residence for the property line of business. Also improving operating earnings, through an increase in premiums, was a $5 million reduction in reinsurance costs. The slight increase in other expenses was more than offset by an $8 million increase in DAC capitalization, resulting primarily from increased premiums written. In addition, a first quarter 2010 write off of an equity interest in a mandatory state underwriting pool required by a change in legislation and a decrease in income from a retroactive reinsurance agreement in run off, both of which were recorded in other revenues, drove a $7 million decrease in operating earnings. Auto & Home also benefited from a lower effective tax rate which improved operating earnings by $8 million primarily as a result of tax free interest income representing a larger portion of pre tax income. Japan Years Ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 499 $ $ 499 Universal life and investment type product policy fees 55 55 Net investment income 145 145 Other revenues 7 7 Total operating revenues 706 706 OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 309 309 Interest credited to policyholder account balances 123 123 Capitalization of DAC (149 ) (149 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 82 82 Amortization of negative VOBA (49 ) (49 ) Other expenses 244 244 Total operating expenses 560 560 Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 52 52 Operating earnings $ 94 $ $ 94 Our Japan operation is comprised of the Japan business acquired in the Acquisition and is among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan. Through our Japan operation we provide life insurance, accident and health insurance, annuities and endowment products to both individuals and groups. Reported operating earnings reflect the operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, ALICOs fiscal year end. Therefore, Japans operating earnings for 2010 include one month of results from ALICO operations. 126 Table of Contents Other International Regions Years Ended December 31, Change % Change 2010 2009 (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 3,625 $ 2,884 $ 741 25.7 % Universal life and investment type product policy fees 1,265 1,055 210 19.9 % Net investment income 1,466 1,111 355 32.0 % Other revenues 28 14 14 100.0 % Total operating revenues 6,384 5,064 1,320 26.1 % OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends 3,053 2,326 727 31.3 % Interest credited to policyholder account balances 554 577 (23 ) (4.0 )% Capitalization of DAC (775 ) (587 ) (188 ) (32.0 )% Amortization of DAC and VOBA 490 397 93 23.4 % Amortization of negative VOBA (8 ) (8 ) Interest expense on debt 3 8 (5 ) (62.5 )% Other expenses 2,233 1,737 496 28.6 % Total operating expenses 5,550 4,458 1,092 24.5 % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 148 155 (7 ) (4.5 )% Operating earnings $ 686 $ 451 $ 235 52.1 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. The improvement in the global financial markets has resulted in continued growth, with an increase in sales in the current period compared to the prior period excluding the results of our Japan joint venture. Retirement and savings sales increased driven by strong annuity, universal life and pension sales in Europe, Mexico, Chile, Korea and China. In our Europe and the Middle East operations, sales of annuities and universal life products remained strong, more than doubling from the prior year, partially offset by lower pension and variable universal life sales in India due to the loss of a major distributor, as well as lower credit life sales. Our Latin America operation experienced an overall increase in sales resulting from solid growth in pension and universal life sales in Mexico and an increase in fixed annuity sales in Chile due to market recovery, slightly offset by lower bank sales in Brazil resulting from incentives offered in the prior year. Sales in our Asia Pacific operation, excluding the results of our Japan joint venture, increased primarily due to higher variable universal life sales in Korea, slightly offset by the decline in annuity sales and strong bank channel sales in China. Reported operating earnings increased by $235 million over the prior year. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $37 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Reported operating earnings reflect the operating results of ALICO operations other than Japan from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, which contributed $20 million to our 2010 operating earnings. As previously noted, ALICOs fiscal year end is November 30; therefore, our results for the year include one month of results from ALICO operations other than Japan. Changes in assumptions for measuring the impact of inflation on certain inflation indexed fixed maturity securities increased operating earnings. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings, resulting from an unfavorable impact in 2009 from a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit in the current year from additional permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. Business growth in our Latin America operation contributed to an increase in operating earnings. Operating earnings in Mexico increased due to growth in our institutional and individual businesses, partially offset by the impact of 127 Table of Contents unfavorable claims experience. Higher investment yields resulting from portfolio restructuring was the primary driver in Argentina contributing to an improvement in operating earnings. Indias results benefited primarily due to lower expenses resulting from the loss of a major distributor and slower growth resulting from market conditions. Partially offsetting these increases is the impact of pesification in Argentina, which favorably impacted 2009 reported earnings by $95 million. This prior period benefit was due to a liability release resulting from a reassessment of our approach in managing existing and potential future claims related to certain social security pension annuity contractholders in Argentina. In addition, operating earnings in Australia were lower, which was primarily due to a write off of DAC attributable to a change in a product feature in the current period. Net investment income increased from growth in average invested assets and improved yields. Growth in average invested assets reflects growth in our businesses. Improved yields reflects the impact of increased inflation, primarily in Chile, as well as the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the effects of inflation on certain inflation indexed fixed maturity securities. The increase in net investment income from higher inflation was offset by an increase in the related insurance liabilities due to higher inflation. Although diversification into higher yielding investments had a positive impact on yields, this was partially offset by decreased trading and other securities results driven by a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 compared to 2010, primarily in Hong Kong, and by a decrease in the results of our operating joint ventures. The reduction in net investment income from our trading portfolio is entirely offset by a corresponding decrease in the interest credited on the related contractholder account balances and therefore had no impact on operating earnings. In addition to an increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of the pesification in Argentina noted above, as well as current period business growth in Korea, Brazil and Mexico, which resulted in increased commissions and compensation. These increases were partially offset by lower commissions and business expenses in India. Corporate & Other Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change % Change (In millions) OPERATING REVENUES Premiums $ 11 $ 19 $ (8 ) (42.1 )% Net investment income 643 70 573 Other revenues 391 236 155 65.7 % Total operating revenues 1,045 325 720 OPERATING EXPENSES Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends (14 ) 4 (18 ) Amortization of DAC and VOBA 1 3 (2 ) (66.7 )% Interest expense on debt 1,126 1,027 99 9.6 % Other expenses 467 586 (119 ) (20.3 )% Total operating expenses 1,580 1,620 (40 ) (2.5 )% Provision for income tax expense (benefit) (366 ) (756 ) 390 51.6 % Operating earnings (169 ) (539 ) 370 68.6 % Less: Preferred stock dividends 122 122 % Operating earnings (losses) available to common shareholders $ (291 ) $ (661 ) $ 370 56.0 % Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. MetLife, Inc. completed four debt financings in August 2010 in anticipation of the Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of 5.875% senior notes, and 128 Table of Contents $250 million of floating rate senior notes. MetLife, Inc. also issued debt securities, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used to finance the Acquisition. MetLife, Inc. completed three debt issuances in 2009 in response to the economic crisis, issuing $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009, $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July 2009. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used for general corporate purposes. Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings, which excludes preferred stock dividends, each increased $370 million, primarily due to an increase in net investment income and a reduction in operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefit and an increase in interest expense resulting from the debt issuances noted above. Net investment income increased $372 million reflecting an increase of $242 million due to higher yields and an increase of $130 million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. This was partially offset by lower fixed maturities and mortgage loan yields which were adversely impacted by the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this lower interest rate environment and from decreased trading and other securities results due to a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 as compared to 2010. In addition, due to the lower interest rate environment in the current year, less net investment income was credited to the segments in 2010 compared to 2009. Growth in average invested assets was primarily due to higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative counterparties and the temporary investment of the proceeds from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. Our investments primarily include structured finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement, including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures, trading securities and equity securities. Corporate & Other benefited in 2010 from a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, a $35 million decrease in real estate related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs. These savings were partially offset by a $14 million increase in charitable contributions. The current year also included $44 million of internal resource costs for associates committed to the Acquisition. Additionally, the resolutions of certain legal matters increased operating earnings by $35 million. Positive results from our mortgage loan servicing business were driven by a $32 million improvement in hedging results. A larger portfolio resulted in higher servicing fees of $18 million. This was partially offset by $10 million of additional expenses incurred in response to both the larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight. Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a result of the debt issuances in 2009 and the senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements. The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was enacted. As a result, we incurred a $75 million charge in the first quarter of 2010. The Health Care Act also amended Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) as a result of which MetLife was initially considered a healthcare provider, as defined, and would be subject to limits on tax deductibility of certain types of compensation. In December 2010, the Internal 129 Table of Contents Revenue Service issued Notice 2011 2 which clarified that the executive compensation deduction limitation included in the Health Care Act did not apply to insurers like MetLife selling de minimis amounts of health care coverage. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reversed $18 million of previously recorded taxes for 2010. In 2009, Corporate & Other received a larger benefit of $49 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions. Effects of Inflation Management believes that inflation has not had a material effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. An increase in inflation could affect our business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on profitability if such costs cannot be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities. Investments Investment Risks The Companys primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates; liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments in times of strained market conditions; and market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as credit spreads. The Company manages risk through in house fundamental analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk, market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management strategies; through product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges; and through proactive monitoring and management of certain non guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit, interest rate, currency and equity market risks. Purchased credit default swaps are utilized by the Company to mitigate credit risk in its investment portfolio. Generally, the Company purchases credit protection by entering into credit default swaps referencing the issuers of specific assets owned by the Company. In certain cases, basis risk exists between these credit default swaps 130 Table of Contents and the specific assets owned by the Company. For example, the Company may purchase credit protection on a macro basis to reduce exposure to specific industries or other portfolio concentrations. In such instances, the referenced entities and obligations under the credit default swaps may not be identical to the individual obligors or securities in the Companys investment portfolio. In addition, the Companys purchased credit default swaps may have shorter tenors than the underlying investments they are hedging. However, the Company dynamically hedges this risk through the rebalancing and rollover of its credit default swaps at their most liquid tenors. The Company believes that its purchased credit default swaps serve as effective legal and economic hedges of its credit exposure. The Company generally enters into market standard purchased and written credit default swap contracts. Payout under such contracts is triggered by certain credit events experienced by the referenced entities. For credit default swaps covering North American corporate issuers, credit events typically include bankruptcy and failure to pay on borrowed money. For European corporate issuers, credit events typically also include involuntary restructuring. With respect to credit default contracts on Western European sovereign debt, credit events typically include failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association deems that a credit event has occurred. Current Environment The global economy and markets are still affected by a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007. This disruption adversely affected the financial services sector in particular and global capital markets. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk bearing investments. See Risk Factors Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position. Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to their sovereign debt. This, in turn, increased market volatility that will continue to affect the performance of various asset classes in 2012, and perhaps longer, until there is an ultimate resolution of these European Union sovereign debt related concerns. As a result of concerns about the ability of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as Europes perimeter region, to service their sovereign debt, these countries have experienced credit ratings downgrades, including the downgrade of Greeces sovereign debt in July 2011 by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) and S&P to Ca and CC ratings, respectively rating designations of likely in, or very near, default, following the announcement of the debt exchange proposal summarized below. In February 2012, S&P further downgraded Greece, as described below. Despite support programs for Europes perimeter region, concerns about the ability to service sovereign debt subsequently expanded to other European Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other European Union member states have experienced credit ratings downgrades or have had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. As summarized below, at December 31, 2011, the Company did not have significant exposure to the sovereign debt of Europes perimeter region. Accordingly, we do not expect such investments to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Outside of Europes perimeter region, the Companys sovereign debt, corporate debt and perpetual hybrid securities in Europe were concentrated in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands and Poland, which are higher rated countries within the European Union, as well in Switzerland and Norway, which are two higher rated non European Union countries. Greece Support Program. In July 2011, a public sector support program for Greece of 109 billion was announced, as well as a separate, voluntary debt exchange proposal for private sector holders of Greece sovereign debt (known as Private Sector Involvement, or PSI). Private investors that voluntarily participate in the initially proposed July PSI proposal, which was expected to apply to Greeces sovereign debt maturing 131 Table of Contents through 2019, were expected to incur losses on a net present value basis of approximately 20% on such securities. In October 2011, a revision of the July PSI proposal was announced which included a voluntary 50% nominal discount on all maturities of Greece sovereign debt held by the private sector. In addition to this, the public sector Greece financing package was revised to 100 billion plus a contribution of 30 billion from Greeces public sector creditors to provide collateral enhancements on the exchanged Greece sovereign bonds under the October PSI proposal. On February 21, 2012, the Euro Group, which is comprised of the finance ministers of the member states of the European Union, representatives of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, announced a 130 billion support program that contains a PSI proposal for a voluntary 53.5% nominal discount on all maturities of Greece sovereign debt held by the private sector. On February 23, 2012, Greeces Parliament retroactively inserted collective action clauses in the documentation of certain series of its sovereign debt, which has the effect of binding all private sector investors to accept the terms of a debt exchange, if a quorum of private sector investors accepts the debt exchange proposal. Greece launched a sovereign debt exchange offer on February 24, 2012. On February 27, 2012, as a result of the retroactive insertion of such collective action clauses, S&P downgraded Greeces credit rating to SD, a rating of selective default. If the Greece sovereign debt exchange offer is consummated, S&P has stated it will likely consider the selective default to have been cured and would likely raise the sovereign credit rating on Greece. Europes Perimeter Region Sovereign Debt Securities. Our holdings of Greece sovereign debt were acquired in the Acquisition and our amortized cost basis reflects recording such securities at estimated fair value on November 1, 2010, which was substantially below par, partially mitigating our impairment exposure. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded non cash impairment charges of $405 million on our holdings of Greeces sovereign debt. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold a significant portion of our Europes perimeter region sovereign debt, thereby substantially reducing our exposure. The par value, amortized cost and estimated fair value of holdings in sovereign debt of Europes perimeter region were $874 million, $254 million and $264 million at December 31, 2011, respectively, and $1.9 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010, respectively. Select European Countries Investment Exposures. Due to the current level of economic, fiscal and political strain in Europes perimeter region and Cyprus, the Company continually monitors and adjusts its level of investment exposure in these countries. We manage direct and indirect investment exposure in these countries through fundamental credit analysis. The following table presents a summary of investments by invested asset class and related purchased credit default protection across Europes perimeter region, by country, and Cyprus. Summary of Select European Country Investment Exposure at December 31, 2011 (1)(2) Fixed maturity securities (3) Sovereign FinancialServices Non FinancialServices Total All OtherGeneral AccountInvestmentExposure (4)(5) TotalExposure (6) % PurchasedCredit DefaultProtection (7) NetExposure % (In millions) Europes perimeter region: Portugal $ 16 $ 4 $ 164 $ 184 $ 9 $ 193 5 % $ (31 ) $ 162 4 % Italy 30 242 995 1,267 80 1,347 33 (11 ) 1,336 33 Ireland 16 6 537 559 532 1,091 26 1,091 27 Greece 189 189 203 392 9 392 9 Spain 13 163 764 940 60 1,000 24 1,000 24 Total Europes perimeter region 264 415 2,460 3,139 884 4,023 97 (42 ) 3,981 97 Cyprus 80 80 34 114 3 114 3 Total $ 344 $ 415 $ 2,460 $ 3,219 $ 918 $ 4,137 100 % $ (42 ) $ 4,095 100 % As percent of total cash and invested assets 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.4 % 0.6 % 0.2 % 0.8 % 0.0 % 0.8 % Investment grade percent 41 % 99 % 93 % 88 % Non investment grade percent 59 % 1 % 7 % 12 % (1) Information is presented on a country of risk basis (e.g. the country where the issuer primarily conducts business). (2) The Company has not written any credit default swaps with an underlying risk related to any of these six countries. 132 Table of Contents (3) Presented at estimated fair value. The par value and amortized cost of the fixed maturity securities were $3.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. (4) Comprised of equity securities, FVO general account securities, real estate and real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and other invested assets at carrying value. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the carrying value for these invested asset classes. (5) Excludes FVO contractholder directed unit linked investments of $667 million, which support unit linked variable annuity type liabilities and do not qualify for separate account summary total assets and liabilities. The contractholder, and not the Company, directs the investment of these funds. The related variable annuity type liability is satisfied from the contractholders account balance and not from the general account investments of the Company. (6) There were no unfunded commitments related to these investments as of December 31, 2011. (7) Purchased credit default protection is stated at the estimated fair value of the swap. For Portugal, the purchased credit default protection relates to sovereign securities and this swap had a notional amount of $100 million and an estimated fair value of $31 million as of December 31, 2011. For Italy, the purchased credit default protection relates to financial services corporate securities and these swaps had a notional amount of $80 million and an estimated fair value of $11 million at December 31, 2011. The counterparties to these swaps are financial institutions with S&P credit ratings ranging from A+ to A as of December 31, 2011. European Region Investments. The Company has investments across certain European Union member states and other countries in the region that are not members of the European Union (collectively, the European Region). In the European Region, we have proactively mitigated risk in both direct and indirect exposures by investing in a diversified portfolio of high quality investments with a focus on the higher rated countries, reducing our holdings through sales of financial services securities during 2010 and 2011 and sales of Europes perimeter region sovereign debt in 2011, and by purchasing certain single name credit default protection in 2010 and 2011. Our sales of financial services securities were focused on institutions with exposure to Europes perimeter region, lower preference capital structure instruments, and larger positions. Sovereign debt issued by countries outside of Europes perimeter region comprised $8.4 billion, or 97% of European Region sovereign fixed maturity securities, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. The European Region corporate securities (fixed maturity and perpetual hybrid securities classified as non redeemable preferred stock) are invested in a diversified portfolio of primarily non financial services securities, which comprised $25.8 billion, or 77% of European Region total corporate securities, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. Of these European Region sovereign fixed maturity and corporate securities, 92% were investment grade and, for the 8% that were below investment grade, the majority were non financial services corporate securities at December 31, 2011. European Region financial services corporate securities at estimated fair value were $7.6 billion, including $5.9 billion within the banking sector, with 94% invested in investment grade rated corporate securities, at December 31, 2011. Rating Actions U.S. Treasury Securities. In August 2011, S&P downgraded the AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities to AA+ with a negative outlook, while Moodys affirmed the Aaa rating on U.S. Treasury securities, but with a negative outlook. Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities and kept its outlook stable. In October 2011, Moodys affirmed its August 2011 ratings but revised its negative outlook to stable. In November 2011, Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities but changed its U.S. credit rating outlook to negative from stable, citing the failure of a special Congressional committee to agree on certain deficit reduction measures. We continue to closely evaluate the implications on our investment portfolio of further rating agency downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities and believe our investment portfolio is well positioned. In light of the related market uncertainty, we increased our liquidity position in July 2011. With the raising of the statutory debt ceiling in August 2011, we have subsequently redeployed and reduced some of 133 Table of Contents this increased liquidity position into higher yielding investments according to our ALM discipline. Despite the downgrade by S&P, yields on U.S. Treasury securities have decreased since these actions, causing an increase in the unrealized gain position on our holdings of U.S. Treasury and agency securities. The S&P downgrade initially had an adverse effect on financial markets but the extent of the longer term impact cannot be predicted. See Risk Factors Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Japan Investments. The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although we expect modest growth in the Japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. The Companys investment in fixed maturity and equity securities in Japan were $28.4 billion, of which $21.0 billion, or 74%, were Japan government and agency fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2011. Summary. All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), level of unrealized gains and (losses) within the various asset classes within our investment portfolio and our allocation to lower yielding cash equivalents and short term investments. See Industry Trends and Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future. 134 Table of Contents Composition of Investment Portfolio and Investment Portfolio Results The following yield table presents the investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending assets and ending carrying value for each of the asset classes within the investment portfolio, as well as investment income and investment portfolio gains (losses) for the investment portfolio as a whole. The yield table also presents gains (losses) on derivative instruments which are used to manage risk for certain invested assets and certain insurance liabilities: At and for the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Fixed Maturity Securities: Yield (1) 4.94 % 5.54 % 5.75 % Investment income (2),(3),(4) $ 15,016 $ 12,567 $ 11,827 Investment gains (losses) (3) $ (932 ) $ (255 ) $ (1,658 ) Ending carrying value (2),(3) $ 351,011 $ 325,391 $ 228,070 Mortgage Loans: Yield (1) 5.53 % 5.51 % 5.38 % Investment income (3),(4) $ 3,162 $ 2,821 $ 2,734 Investment gains (losses) (3) $ 175 $ 22 $ (442 ) Ending carrying value (3) $ 61,303 $ 55,457 $ 50,824 Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures: Yield (1) 3.76 % 1.10 % (7.47 )% Investment income (3) $ 307 $ 77 $ (541 ) Investment gains (losses) (3) $ 230 $ (40 ) $ (156 ) Ending carrying value $ 8,563 $ 8,030 $ 6,896 Policy Loans: Yield (1) 5.43 % 6.38 % 6.49 % Investment income $ 641 $ 649 $ 641 Ending carrying value $ 11,892 $ 11,761 $ 9,932 Equity Securities: Yield (1) 4.44 % 4.40 % 5.12 % Investment income $ 141 $ 128 $ 176 Investment gains (losses) $ (23 ) $ 104 $ (399 ) Ending carrying value $ 3,023 $ 3,602 $ 3,081 Other Limited Partnership Interests: Yield (1) 10.58 % 14.99 % 3.22 % Investment income $ 681 $ 879 $ 174 Investment gains (losses) $ 4 $ (18 ) $ (356 ) Ending carrying value $ 6,378 $ 6,416 $ 5,508 Cash and Short Term Investments: Yield (1), (5) 1.04 % 0.61 % 0.53 % Investment income $ 155 $ 81 $ 93 Investment gains (losses) $ 2 $ 2 $ 6 Ending carrying value (3) $ 27,750 $ 22,302 $ 18,385 Other Invested Assets: (1) Investment income $ 454 $ 492 $ 335 Investment gains (losses) (3) $ (9 ) $ (8 ) $ (32 ) Ending carrying value $ 23,628 $ 15,430 $ 12,697 Total Investments: Investment income yield (1) 5.01 % 5.51 % 5.08 % Investment fees and expenses yield (0.13 ) (0.14 ) (0.14 ) Net Investment Income Yield (1), (3),(5) 4.88 % 5.37 % 4.94 % Investment income $ 20,557 $ 17,694 $ 15,439 Investment fees and expenses (546 ) (465 ) (432 ) Net investment income including divested businesses $ 20,011 $ 17,229 $ 15,007 Less: net investment income from divested businesses (5) (335 ) (349 ) (407 ) Net Investment Income (3) $ 19,676 $ 16,880 $ 14,600 Ending Carrying Value (3) $ 493,548 $ 448,389 $ 335,393 Investment portfolio gains (losses) including divested businesses $ (553 ) $ (193 ) $ (3,037 ) Less: investment portfolio gains (losses) from divested businesses (5) 140 33 129 Investment portfolio gains (losses) (3),(5),(6) $ (413 ) $ (160 ) $ (2,908 ) Gross investment gains $ 1,354 $ 1,180 $ 1,226 Gross investment losses (1,058 ) (840 ) (1,393 ) Writedowns (709 ) (500 ) (2,741 ) Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses) (3),(5),(6) $ (413 ) $ (160 ) $ (2,908 ) Investment portfolio gains (losses) income tax (expense) benefit 148 46 1,068 Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses), Net of Income Tax $ (265 ) $ (114 ) $ (1,840 ) Derivative gains (losses) including divested businesses $ 4,545 $ (614 ) $ (5,106 ) Less: derivative gains (losses) from divested businesses (5) 163 41 (2 ) Derivative gains (losses) (3),(5),(6) $ 4,708 $ (573 ) $ (5,108 ) Derivative gains (losses) income tax (expense) benefit (1,643 ) 144 1,804 Derivative Gains (Losses), Net of Income Tax $ 3,065 $ (429 ) $ (3,304 ) 135 Table of Contents As described in the footnotes below, the yield table reflects certain differences from the presentation of invested assets, net investment income, net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) as presented in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. This yield table presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment performance for management purposes, and we believe it enhances understanding of our investment portfolio results. (1) Yields are calculated as investment income as a percent of average quarterly asset carrying values. Investment income excludes recognized gains and losses and reflects the operating revenue adjustments related to net investment income. Asset carrying values exclude unrealized investment gains (losses), collateral received from counterparties associated with our securities lending program, freestanding derivative assets, collateral received from derivative counterparties, the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as consolidated securitization entities (CSEs), contractholder directed unit linked investments and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. A yield is not presented for other invested assets, as it is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for this asset class. (2) Fixed maturity securities include $740 million, $594 million and $2.4 billion at estimated fair value of trading and other securities at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include $31 million, $234 million and $400 million of investment income (loss) related to trading and other securities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) As described in footnote (1) above, ending carrying values exclude contractholder directed unit linked investments reported within trading and other securities, securities held by CSEs reported within trading and other securities, and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans reported within mortgage loans. The related adjustments to ending carrying value, investment income and investment gains (losses) by invested asset class are presented below. The adjustments to investment income, net investment income and investment gains (losses) in the aggregate are as shown in footnote (6) to this yield table. The adjustment to investment gains (losses) presented below and in footnote (6) to this yield table includes the effects of remeasuring both the invested assets and long term debt in accordance with the FVO. At or For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 At or For the Year Ended December 31, 2010 As Reported in theYield Table ExcludedAmounts Total As Reported in theYield Table ExcludedAmounts Total (In millions) (In millions) Trading and Other Securities: (included within Fixed Maturity Securities): Ending carrying value $ 740 $ 17,528 $ 18,268 $ 594 $ 17,995 $ 18,589 Investment income $ 31 $ (444 ) $ (413 ) $ 234 $ 226 $ 460 Investment gains (losses) $ (2 ) $ (8 ) $ (10 ) $ $ (30 ) $ (30 ) Mortgage Loans: Ending carrying value $ 61,303 $ 10,790 $ 72,093 $ 55,457 $ 6,840 $ 62,297 Investment income $ 3,162 $ 332 $ 3,494 $ 2,821 $ 396 $ 3,217 Investment gains (losses) $ 175 $ 13 $ 188 $ 22 $ 36 $ 58 Cash and Short Term Investments: Ending carrying value $ 27,750 $ 21 $ 27,771 $ 22,302 $ 39 $ 22,341 Total Investments: Ending carrying value $ 493,548 $ 28,339 $ 521,887 $ 448,389 $ 24,874 $ 473,263 (4) Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees. (5) For further information on Divested Businesses, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period yields have been recast to conform to the current period presentation to exclude 136 Table of Contents from asset carrying values freestanding derivatives and collateral received from derivative counterparties. Net investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses), and derivative gains (losses) are presented including and excluding the impact of Divested Businesses. Yields are calculated including the net investment income and ending carrying values of the Divested Businesses. (6) Net investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses) and derivative gains (losses) presented in this yield table vary from the most directly comparable measures presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of operations due to certain reclassifications affecting net investment income, net investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), interest credited to policyholder account balances, and other revenues, and excludes the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. Such reclassifications are presented in the tables below. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Net investment income in the above yield table $ 20,011 $ 17,229 $ 15,007 Real estate discontinued operations deduct from net investment income (4 ) (2 ) (22 ) Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting deduct from net investment income, add to net derivative gains (losses) (249 ) (208 ) (88 ) Equity method operating joint ventures add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses) (23 ) (130 ) (156 ) Net investment income on contractholder directed unit linked investments reported within trading and other securities add to net investment income (453 ) 211 Incremental net investment income from CSEs add to net investment income 324 411 Net investment income GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ 19,606 $ 17,511 $ 14,741 Investment portfolio gains (losses) in the above yield table $ (553 ) $ (193 ) $ (3,037 ) Real estate discontinued operations deduct from net investment gains (losses) (96 ) (14 ) (8 ) Investment gains (losses) related to CSEs add to net investment gains (losses) 5 6 Other gains (losses) add to net investment gains (losses) (223 ) (207 ) 144 Net investment gains (losses) GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ (867 ) $ (408 ) $ (2,901 ) Derivative gains (losses) in the above yield table $ 4,545 $ (614 ) $ (5,106 ) Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from net investment income 249 208 88 Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from interest credited to PABs 19 11 (4 ) Settlement of foreign currency earnings hedges add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from other revenues (12 ) Equity method operating joint ventures add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses) 23 130 156 Net derivative gains (losses) GAAP consolidated statements of operations $ 4,824 $ (265 ) $ (4,866 ) See Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009, for analyses of the year over year changes in net investment income, net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale Fixed maturity securities, which consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities, were $350.3 billion and $324.8 billion at estimated fair value, or 67% and 69% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Publicly traded fixed maturity securities represented $303.6 billion and $284.0 billion of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or 87% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31, 2011 and 137 Table of Contents 2010. Privately placed fixed maturity securities represented $46.7 billion and $40.8 billion at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively, or 13% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Equity securities, which consisted principally of publicly traded and privately held common and preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund interests, were $3.0 billion and $3.6 billion at estimated fair value, or 0.6% and 0.8% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Publicly traded equity securities represented $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion at estimated fair value, or 57% and 64% of total equity securities, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Privately held equity securities represented $1.3 billion of total equity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, or 43% and 36% of total equity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Upon acquisition, the Company classifies perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the securities have an interest rate step up feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the securities have more debt like characteristics; while those with more equity like characteristics are classified as equity securities within non redeemable preferred stock. Many of such securities, commonly referred to as perpetual hybrid securities, have been issued by non U.S. financial institutions that are accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or Tier 1 capital and perpetual deferrable securities, or Upper Tier 2 capital). The following table presents the amount and classification of perpetual hybrid securities held by the Company at: December 31, 2011 2010 Classification EstimatedFair Value EstimatedFairValue Consolidated Balance Sheets Sector Table Primary Issuers (In millions) Fixed maturity securities Foreign corporate securities Non U.S. financial institutions $ 523 $ 2,008 Fixed maturity securities U.S. corporate securities U.S. financial institutions $ 226 $ 83 Equity securities Non redeemable preferred stock Non U.S. financial institutions $ 440 $ 1,043 Equity securities Non redeemable preferred stock U.S. financial institutions $ 350 $ 236 The Companys holdings in redeemable preferred stock with stated maturity dates, commonly referred to as capital securities, were primarily issued by U.S. financial institutions and have cumulative interest deferral features. The Company held $1.9 billion and $2.7 billion at estimated fair value of such securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which are included in the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sectors within fixed maturity securities. Valuation of Securities. We are responsible for the determination of estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of publicly traded securities is determined by management after considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations; whereas for privately placed securities, estimated fair value is determined after considering one of three primary sources of information: market standard internal matrix pricing, market standard internal discounted cash flow techniques, or independent pricing services after we determine their use of available observable market data. Discounted cash flow techniques rely upon the estimated future cash flows of the security, credit spreads of comparable public securities and secondary transactions, as well as other factors, including the credit quality of the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with privately placed debt securities. For publicly traded securities, the number of quotations obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on data about market transactions and inputs from multiple pricing sources that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. See Note 5 138 Table of Contents of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the types of market standard valuation methodologies utilized and key assumptions and observable inputs used in applying these standard valuation methodologies. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management will value the security primarily using market standard internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques, and non binding quotations from independent brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities. Independent non binding broker quotations utilize inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data. As shown in the following section, less than 1% of our fixed maturity securities were valued using non binding quotations from independent brokers at December 31, 2011. Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable market prices and market based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that judgmental valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revise when necessary based on changing market conditions. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through our controls designed to ensure that the financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued and represent an exit price. We utilize several controls, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to managements knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices from multiple pricing sources, when available, reviewing independent auditor reports regarding the controls over valuation of securities employed by independent pricing services, and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market based parameters for valuation. We determine the observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. The Company also applies a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from independent pricing services are not reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek independent non binding broker quotes or use an internally developed valuation to override these prices. As described below, such overrides have not been material. Our internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our estimates of liquidity and non performance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. This is, in part, because our internal estimates of liquidity and non performance risks are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other market participants. In the absence of such market based evidence, managements best estimate is used. As a result, we generally use the price provided by the independent pricing service under our normal pricing protocol. The Company has reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analyses, each instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the lowest level significant input to its valuation. Certain securities have been classified into Level 1 because of unadjusted quoted prices and high volumes of trading activity and narrow bid/ask spreads. Most securities valued by independent pricing services have been classified into Level 2 because the significant inputs used in pricing these securities are market observable or can be corroborated using market observable information. Most investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and certain below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services that use observable inputs have been classified within Level 2. Distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities have been classified within Level 3. Below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and less liquid securities with very limited trading activity where estimated fair values are determined by independent pricing services or by non binding quotations from independent brokers that use inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data, are 139 Table of Contents classified as Level 3. Use of independent non binding broker quotations generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or the general lack of transparency in the process to develop these price estimates causing them to be considered Level 3. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the valuation techniques and inputs by level within the three level fair value hierarchy by major classes of invested assets. Quarterly, we evaluate and monitor the markets in which our fixed maturity and equity securities trade and, in our judgment, despite reduced levels of liquidity discussed above, believe none of these fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets should be characterized as distressed and disorderly. Fair Value Hierarchy and Level 3 Rollforward Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities. Fixed maturity securities and equity securities available for sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources and fair value hierarchy are as follows: December 31, 2011 Fixed MaturitySecurities EquitySecurities (In millions) Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets $ 19,987 5.7 % $ 819 27.1 % Level 2: Independent pricing source 275,575 78.7 497 16.4 Internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques 36,944 10.5 988 32.7 Significant other observable inputs 312,519 89.2 1,485 49.1 Level 3: Independent pricing source 8,178 2.4 513 17.0 Internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques 8,138 2.3 158 5.2 Independent broker quotations 1,449 0.4 48 1.6 Significant unobservable inputs 17,765 5.1 719 23.8 Total estimated fair value $ 350,271 100.0 % $ 3,023 100.0 % 140 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 Fair Value Measurements Using QuotedPrices inActiveMarkets forIdentical Assets(Level 1) SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2) SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3) TotalEstimatedFair Value (In millions) Fixed Maturity Securities: U.S. corporate securities $ $ 99,001 $ 6,784 $ 105,785 Foreign corporate securities 59,648 4,370 64,018 Foreign government securities 76 50,138 2,322 52,536 Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) 41,035 1,602 42,637 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 19,911 20,070 31 40,012 Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) 18,316 753 19,069 State and political subdivision securities 13,182 53 13,235 Asset backed securities (ABS) 11,129 1,850 12,979 Other fixed maturity securities Total fixed maturity securities $ 19,987 $ 312,519 $ 17,765 $ 350,271 Equity Securities: Common stock $ 819 $ 1,105 $ 281 $ 2,205 Non redeemable preferred stock 380 438 818 Total equity securities $ 819 $ 1,485 $ 719 $ 3,023 The composition of fair value pricing sources for and significant changes in Level 3 securities at December 31, 2011 are as follows: The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity securities (83%, as presented above) were concentrated in four sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and ABS. Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally through market standard valuation methodologies, independent pricing services and independent non binding broker quotations using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity securities consist of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including alternative residential mortgage loan (Alt A) and sub prime RMBS and less liquid prime RMBS, certain below investment grade private placements and less liquid investment grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities), less liquid foreign government securities and less liquid ABS. During the year ended December 31, 2011, Level 3 fixed maturity securities decreased by $5.0 billion, or 22%. The decrease was driven by net transfers out of Level 3, partially offset by net purchases in excess of sales and increase in estimated fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). See analysis of transfers into and or out of Level 3 below. The increase in net purchases in excess of sales of fixed maturity securities were concentrated in ABS and foreign government securities, and the increase in estimated fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for fixed maturity securities was concentrated in U.S. corporate securities due in part to a decrease in interest rates. 141 Table of Contents A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity securities and equity securities available for sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 Fixed MaturitySecurities EquitySecurities (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 22,716 $ 1,173 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (1) 48 (57 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 403 10 Purchases 4,907 109 Sales (4,219 ) (462 ) Transfers into Level 3 599 12 Transfers out of Level 3 (6,689 ) (66 ) Balance, end of period $ 17,765 $ 719 (1) Total gains and losses in earnings and other comprehensive income (loss) are calculated assuming transfers into or out of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and out for the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Total gains (losses) for fixed maturity securities included in earnings of ($7) million and other comprehensive income (loss) of $9 million, were incurred on these securities subsequent to their transfer into Level 3, for the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively. An analysis of transfers into and or out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows: Overall, transfers into and or out of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the observability of inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming observable. Transfers into and or out of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the period. Significant transfers into and or out of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized below: During the year ended December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities transfers into Level 3 of $599 million resulted primarily from current market conditions characterized by a lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade). These current market conditions have resulted in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and unobservable inputs to determine estimated fair value principally for certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities and foreign government securities. During the year ended December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities transfers out of Level 3 of ($6.7) billion resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new issuances that, subsequent to issuance and establishment of trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to obtain pricing from, or corroborate pricing received from independent pricing services with observable inputs, or there were increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings primarily for ABS, foreign government securities, U.S. and foreign corporate securities and RMBS. See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Estimated Fair Value of Investments for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. 142 Table of Contents See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above. Fixed Maturity Securities. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about: Fixed maturity and equity securities on a sector basis and the related cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, including the noncredit loss component of OTTI loss, and estimated fair value of such securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010; Government and agency securities holdings in excess of 10% of the Companys equity at December 31, 2011 and 2010; and Maturities of fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality Ratings. The Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called NAIC designations. If no rating is available from the NAIC, then as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC ratings are generally similar to the credit quality designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations (NRSROs) for marketable fixed maturity securities, called rating agency designations, except for certain structured securities as described below. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include fixed maturity securities generally considered investment grade (i.e., rated Baa3 or better by Moodys or rated BBB or better by S&P and Fitch) by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include fixed maturity securities generally considered below investment grade (i.e., rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys or rated BB+ or lower by S&P and Fitch) by such rating organizations. Rating agency designations are based on availability of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC acceptable rating organizations list, including Moodys, S&P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC adopted revised rating methodologies for certain structured securities comprised of non agency RMBS, CMBS and ABS. The NAICs objective with the revised rating methodologies for these structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital requirement for such structured securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from structured securities. The Company applies the revised NAIC rating methodologies to structured securities held by MetLife, Inc.s insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC statutory financial statements. The NAICs present methodology is to evaluate structured securities held by insurers using the revised NAIC rating methodologies on an annual basis. If such insurance subsidiaries of the Company acquire structured securities that have not been previously evaluated by the NAIC, but are expected to be evaluated by the NAIC in the upcoming annual review, an internally developed rating is used until a final rating becomes available. The four tables below present fixed maturity securities based on rating agency designations and equivalent designations of the NAIC, with the exception of certain structured securities described above. These structured securities are presented based on ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies described above (which may not correspond to rating agency designations). All NAIC designation (e.g., NAIC 1 6) amounts and percentages presented herein are based on the revised NAIC methodologies described above. All rating agency designation (e.g., Aaa/AAA) amounts and percentages presented herein are based on rating agency designations without adjustment for the revised NAIC methodologies described above. 143 Table of Contents The following table presents total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at: December 31, 2011 2010 NAICRating Rating Agency Designation AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal (In millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 230,195 $ 246,786 70.5 % $ 226,639 $ 231,198 71.2 % 2 Baa 73,352 78,531 22.4 65,412 68,729 21.2 3 Ba 14,604 14,375 4.1 15,331 15,290 4.7 4 B 9,437 8,849 2.5 8,742 8,308 2.6 5 Caa and lower 2,142 1,668 0.5 1,340 1,142 0.3 6 In or near default 81 62 153 130 Total fixed maturity securities $ 329,811 $ 350,271 100.0 % $ 317,617 $ 324,797 100.0 % The following tables present total fixed maturity securities, based on estimated fair value, by sector classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, that each designation is comprised of at December 31, 2011and 2010: Fixed Maturity Securities by Sector & Credit Quality Rating at December 31, 2011 NAIC Rating: 1 2 3 4 5 6 TotalEstimatedFair Value Rating Agency Designation: Aaa/Aa/A Baa Ba B Caa andLower In or NearDefault (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 51,045 $ 41,533 $ 8,677 $ 4,257 $ 271 $ 2 $ 105,785 Foreign corporate securities 33,403 26,383 2,915 1,173 140 4 64,018 Foreign government securities 42,360 7,553 1,146 1,281 196 52,536 RMBS (1) 36,699 1,477 1,450 2,026 933 52 42,637 U.S. Treasury and agencysecurities 40,012 40,012 CMBS (1) 18,403 388 125 57 96 19,069 State and politicalsubdivision securities 12,357 842 23 5 8 13,235 ABS (1) 12,507 355 39 50 24 4 12,979 Other fixed maturity securities Total fixed maturity securities $ 246,786 $ 78,531 $ 14,375 $ 8,849 $ 1,668 $ 62 $ 350,271 Percentage of total 70.5 % 22.4 % 4.1 % 2.5 % 0.5 % % 100.0 % 144 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities by Sector & Credit Quality Rating at December 31, 2010 NAIC Rating: 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total Rating Agency Designation: Aaa/Aa/A Baa Ba B Caa andLower In or NearDefault EstimatedFair Value (In millions) U.S. corporate securities $ 46,035 $ 34,259 $ 7,633 $ 3,452 $ 353 $ 40 $ 91,772 Foreign corporate securities 39,430 24,352 2,474 1,454 169 9 67,888 Foreign government securities 31,559 7,184 2,179 1,080 42,002 RMBS (1) (2) 39,640 1,196 2,411 2,054 497 54 45,852 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 33,304 33,304 CMBS (1) 19,385 665 363 205 56 1 20,675 State and political subdivision securities 9,368 722 32 7 10,129 ABS (1) (2) 12,477 348 198 59 60 26 13,168 Other fixed maturity securities 3 4 7 Total fixed maturity securities $ 231,198 $ 68,729 $ 15,290 $ 8,308 $ 1,142 $ 130 $ 324,797 Percentage of total 71.2 % 21.2 % 4.7 % 2.6 % 0.3 % % 100.0 % (1) Presented using the revised NAIC rating methodologies described above. (2) Within fixed maturity securities, a reclassification from the ABS sector to the RMBS sector has been made to the prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation for securities backed by sub prime residential mortgage loans to be consistent with market convention relating to the risks inherent in such securities and the Companys management of its investments within these asset sectors. The following table presents selected information about certain fixed maturity securities held at: December 31, 2011 2010 (In millions) Below investment grade or non rated fixed maturity securities: Estimated fair value $ 24,954 $ 24,870 Net unrealized gains (losses) $ (1,310 ) $ (696 ) Non income producing fixed maturity securities: Estimated fair value $ 62 $ 130 Net unrealized gains (losses) $ (19 ) $ (23 ) 145 Table of Contents U.S. and Foreign Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities. The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have an exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments. The tables below present information for U.S. and foreign corporate securities at: December 31, 2011 2010 EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal (In millions) (In millions) Corporate fixed maturity securities by sector: Foreign corporate fixed maturity securities (1) $ 64,018 37.7 % $ 67,888 42.5 % U.S. corporate fixed maturity securities by industry: Industrial 26,962 15.9 22,070 13.8 Consumer 26,739 15.7 21,482 13.5 Finance 20,854 12.3 20,785 13.0 Utility 19,508 11.5 16,902 10.6 Communications 8,178 4.8 7,335 4.6 Other 3,544 2.1 3,198 2.0 Total $ 169,803 100.0 % $ 159,660 100.0 % (1) Includes U.S. dollar denominated and foreign denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors and other foreign fixed maturity securities. December 31, 2011 2010 EstimatedFairValue % of TotalInvestments EstimatedFairValue % of TotalInvestments (In millions) (In millions) Concentrations within corporate fixed maturity securities: Largest exposure to a single issuer $ 1,642 0.3 % $ 2,291 0.5 % Holdings in ten issuers with the largest exposures $ 10,716 2.1 % $ 14,247 3.1 % Structured Securities. The following table presents information about structured securities at: December 31, 2011 2010 EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal (In millions) RMBS $ 42,637 57.1 % $ 45,852 57.5 % CMBS 19,069 25.5 20,675 26.0 ABS 12,979 17.4 13,168 16.5 Total structured securities $ 74,685 100.0 % $ 79,695 100.0 % Ratings profile: RMBS rated Aaa/AAA $ 31,690 74.3 % $ 36,244 79.0 % RMBS rated NAIC 1 $ 36,699 86.1 % $ 39,640 86.5 % CMBS rated Aaa/AAA $ 15,785 82.8 % $ 16,901 81.7 % CMBS rated NAIC 1 $ 18,403 96.5 % $ 19,385 93.7 % ABS rated Aaa/AAA $ 8,223 63.4 % $ 10,252 77.9 % ABS rated NAIC 1 $ 12,507 96.4 % $ 12,477 94.8 % 146 Table of Contents RMBS. The table below presents information on RMBS holdings at: December 31, 2011 2010 EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal (In millions) (In millions) By security type: Collateralized mortgage obligations $ 23,392 54.9 % $ 23,422 51.1 % Pass through securities 19,245 45.1 22,430 48.9 Total RMBS $ 42,637 100.0 % $ 45,852 100.0 % By risk profile: Agency $ 31,055 72.8 % $ 34,254 74.7 % Prime 5,959 14.0 6,258 13.7 Alt A 4,648 10.9 4,221 9.2 Sub prime 975 2.3 1,119 2.4 Total RMBS $ 42,637 100.0 % $ 45,852 100.0 % Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of mortgage backed security structured by dividing the cash flows of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority of payments. Pass through mortgage backed securities are a type of asset backed security that is secured by a mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank, which collects the payments and, for a fee, remits or passes these payments through to the holders of the pass through securities. The majority of RMBS held by the Company was rated Aaa/AAA by Moodys, S&P or Fitch; and the majority was rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2011 and 2010, as presented above. Agency RMBS were guaranteed or otherwise supported by FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA. Non agency RMBS include prime, Alt A and sub prime RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub prime. Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within prime and Alt A RMBS are resecuritization of real estate mortgage investment conduit (Re REMIC) securities. Re REMIC RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of prime and Alt A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the resecuritization. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Companys Alt A securities portfolio has no exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. The Companys Alt A securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate mortgages (93% and 91% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively) which have performed better than both option ARMs and hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt A market. The Companys Alt A RMBS holdings had unrealized losses of $871 million and $670 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 7% and 16% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The sub prime RMBS had unrealized losses of $347 million and $317 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, approximately 21% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 79% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. At December 31, 2010, approximately 54% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 88% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. These older vintages from 2005 and prior benefit from better underwriting, improved credit enhancement levels and higher residential property price appreciation. Approximately 69% and 66% of this portfolio was rated NAIC 2 or better at December 31, 2011 and 2010, 147 Table of Contents respectively. The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable mortgage products and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub prime residential mortgage loans have led to higher delinquency and loss rates, especially within the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. These factors have caused a pull back in market liquidity and repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels of unrealized losses on securities backed by sub prime residential mortgage loans as compared to historical levels. CMBS. The following tables present holdings of CMBS by rating agency designation and by vintage year at: December 31, 2011 Aaa Aa A Baa BelowInvestmentGrade Total AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue (In millions) 2003 & Prior $ 5,574 $ 5,677 $ 176 $ 176 $ 91 $ 88 $ 54 $ 52 $ 29 $ 27 $ 5,924 $ 6,020 2004 3,586 3,730 430 440 135 129 83 80 32 25 4,266 4,404 2005 3,081 3,318 427 432 277 269 184 175 31 28 4,000 4,222 2006 1,712 1,835 245 237 89 83 118 110 123 106 2,287 2,371 2007 643 665 395 332 163 138 67 71 94 88 1,362 1,294 2008 25 27 25 27 2009 2010 3 3 60 66 63 69 2011 536 557 1 1 92 96 9 8 638 662 Total $ 15,135 $ 15,785 $ 1,674 $ 1,618 $ 847 $ 803 $ 566 $ 554 $ 343 $ 309 $ 18,565 $ 19,069 Ratings Distribution 82.8 % 8.5 % 4.2 % 2.9 % 1.6 % 100.0 % December 31, 2010 Aaa Aa A Baa BelowInvestmentGrade Total AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue AmortizedCost EstimatedFairValue (In millions) 2003 & Prior $ 7,411 $ 7,640 $ 282 $ 282 $ 228 $ 227 $ 74 $ 71 $ 28 $ 24 $ 8,023 $ 8,244 2004 3,489 3,620 277 273 216 209 181 175 91 68 4,254 4,345 2005 3,113 3,292 322 324 286 280 263 255 73 66 4,057 4,217 2006 1,463 1,545 159 160 168 168 385 398 166 156 2,341 2,427 2007 840 791 344 298 96 95 119 108 122 133 1,521 1,425 2008 2 2 2 2 2009 3 3 3 3 2010 8 8 4 4 12 12 Total $ 16,329 $ 16,901 $ 1,384 $ 1,337 $ 998 $ 983 $ 1,022 $ 1,007 $ 480 $ 447 $ 20,213 $ 20,675 Ratings Distribution 81.7 % 6.4 % 4.8 % 4.9 % 2.2 % 100.0 % The tables above reflect rating agency designations assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies including Moodys, S&P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC. The weighted average credit enhancement of the Companys CMBS holdings was 27% and 26% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This credit enhancement percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of outstanding capital structure subordinated to the Companys investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar of loss of principal. The credit protection does not include any equity interest or property value in excess of outstanding debt. 148 Table of Contents ABS. The Companys ABS are diversified both by collateral type and by issuer. The following table presents information about ABS held at: December 31, 2011 2010 EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal EstimatedFairValue % ofTotal (In millions) (In millions) By collateral type: Credit card loans $ 4,038 31.1 % $ 6,027 45.8 % Collateralized debt obligations 2,575 19.8 1,798 13.7 Student loans 2,434 18.8 2,416 18.3 Automobile loans 977 7.5 605 4.6 Other loans 2,955 22.8 2,322 17.6 Total $ 12,979 100.0 % $ 13,168 100.0 % Evaluation of Fixed Maturity Securities and Equity Securities Available for Sale for Other Than Temporary Impairment See the following sections within Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the evaluation of fixed maturity securities and equity securities available for sale for OTTI: Evaluating available for sale securities for other than temporary impairment; Net unrealized investment gains (losses); Continuous gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale by sector; Aging of gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale; Concentration of gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale; and Evaluating temporarily impaired available for sale securities. Trading and Other Securities The Company has a trading securities portfolio, principally invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities (Actively Traded Securities) and the execution of short sale agreements. Trading and other securities also include securities for which the FVO has been elected (FVO Securities). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity and equity securities held for investment by the general account to support asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also include contractholder directed investments supporting unit linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances. FVO Securities also include securities held by CSEs (former qualifying special purpose entities). Trading and other securities were $18.3 billion and $18.6 billion at estimated fair value, or 3.5% and 3.9% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables which present information about the Actively Traded Securities and FVO Securities, related short sale agreement liabilities and investments pledged to secure short sale agreement liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 149 Table of Contents Trading and other securities and trading (short sale agreement) liabilities, measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2011 Trading and OtherSecurities TradingLiabilities (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ 7,572 41 % $ 124 98 % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) 9,287 51 3 2 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 1,409 8 Total estimated fair value $ 18,268 100 % $ 127 100 % A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading and other securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2011, is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 822 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings (2 ) Purchases 1,246 Sales (519 ) Transfers into Level 3 121 Transfers out of Level 3 (259 ) Balance, end of period $ 1,409 See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level of major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above. Net Investment Gains (Losses) Including OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present: The components of net investment gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and industry within the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sector for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and Equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and industry for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings. Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.0 billion, $484 million and $1.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Impairments of fixed maturity securities were $955 million, $470 million and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Impairments of equity securities were $60 million, $14 million and $400 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 150 Table of Contents The Companys credit related impairments of fixed maturity securities were $645 million, $423 million and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys three largest impairments totaled $499 million, $105 million and $508 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company records OTTI losses charged to earnings within net investment gains (losses) and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities impairments are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.0 billion for the current year as compared to $484 million in the prior year. The increase in OTTI losses on fixed maturity and equity securities primarily reflects impairments on Greece sovereign debt securities of $405 million as a result of the reduction in the expected recoverable amount (see Investments Current Environment) and intent to sell fixed maturity security impairments on other sovereign debt securities due to the repositioning of the acquired ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, resulting in total sovereign debt security impairments of $486 million recognized in 2011. In addition, intent to sell impairments related to the Divested Businesses of $154 million were recognized in 2011 primarily concentrated in the RMBS sector. These increased impairments were partially offset by decreased impairments in the CMBS, ABS and corporate sectors, reflecting improving economic fundamentals. Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were $484 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion in the prior year. Improving or stabilizing market conditions across all sectors and industries, particularly the financial services industry, as compared to the prior year when there was significant stress in the global financial markets, resulted in a lower level of impairments in fixed maturity and equity securities in 2010. The most significant decrease in the current year, as compared to the prior year, was in the Companys financial services industry holdings which comprised $799 million in fixed maturity and equity security impairments in the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $129 million in impairments in the year ended December 31, 2010. Of the $799 million in financial services industry impairments in the prior year, $340 million were in equity securities, of which $310 million were in financial services industry perpetual hybrid securities which were impaired as a result of deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized loss position on these securities. Impairments in the current year were concentrated in the RMBS, ABS and CMBS sectors reflecting then current economic conditions including higher unemployment levels and continued weakness within the real estate markets. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of $484 million and $1.9 billion in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, $287 million and $449 million, or 59% and 24%, respectively, were in the Companys RMBS, ABS and CMBS holdings. Future Impairments. Future OTTIs will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals or any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTIs may be incurred in upcoming quarters. Credit Loss Rollforward Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI Loss Was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the table that presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities still held at December 31, 2011 and 2010 for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 151 Table of Contents Securities Lending The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company obtains collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company is liable to return to its counterparties the cash collateral under its control. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of the cash received. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the following information regarding the Companys securities lending program: securities on loan, cash collateral on deposit from counterparties, security collateral on deposit from counterparties and the estimated fair value of the reinvestment portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of the invested assets on deposit, held in trust and pledged as collateral at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Mortgage Loans The Companys mortgage loans are principally collateralized by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and residential properties. The carrying value of mortgage loans was $72.1 billion and $62.3 billion, or 13.8% and 13.1% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys mortgage loans held for investment of $56.9 billion and $59.0 billion by portfolio segment at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as well as the components of the mortgage loans held for sale of $15.2 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The information presented below excludes the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. Such amounts are presented in the aforementioned table. The Company diversifies its mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration. Of the Companys commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, 90% are collateralized by properties located in the U.S., with the remaining 10% collateralized by properties located outside the U.S., calculated as a percent of the total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2011. The carrying value of the Companys commercial and agricultural mortgage loans located in California, New York and Texas were 19%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2011. Additionally, the Company manages risk when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by generally lending only up to 75% of the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate collateral. 152 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property Type. Commercial mortgage loans are the largest component of the mortgage loan invested asset class as it represents over 70% of total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs) at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types of commercial mortgage loans held for investment at: December 31, 2011 2010 Amount % ofTotal Amount % ofTotal (In millions) Region (1): South Atlantic $ 9,022 22.3 % $ 7,910 20.9 % Pacific 8,209 20.3 8,616 22.8 Middle Atlantic 6,370 15.8 5,486 14.5 International 4,713 11.7 4,095 10.8 West South Central 3,220 8.0 2,922 7.7 East North Central 2,984 7.3 2,900 7.7 New England 1,563 3.9 1,310 3.5 Mountain 746 1.8 811 2.2 East South Central 487 1.2 461 1.2 West North Central 365 0.9 643 1.7 Multi Region and Other 2,761 6.8 2,664 7.0 Total recorded investment 40,440 100.0 % 37,818 100.0 % Less: valuation allowances 398 562 Carrying value, net of valuation allowances $ 40,042 $ 37,256 Property Type: Office $ 18,582 45.9 % $ 16,857 44.6 % Retail 9,524 23.6 9,215 24.3 Apartments 4,011 9.9 3,630 9.6 Hotels 3,114 7.7 3,089 8.2 Industrial 3,102 7.7 2,910 7.7 Other 2,107 5.2 2,117 5.6 Total recorded investment 40,440 100.0 % 37,818 100.0 % Less: valuation allowances 398 562 Carrying value, net of valuation allowances $ 40,042 $ 37,256 (1) Reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts from various regions to the Multi Region and Other region to conform to the current year presentation. Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure. The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice. The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in managements opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent in the near term. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans consistent 153 Table of Contents with industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial mortgage loans 60 days or more; agricultural mortgage loans 90 days or more; and residential mortgage loans 60 days or more. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced. The following table presents the recorded investment and valuation allowance for all mortgage loans held for investment distributed by the above stated loan classifications at: December 31, 2011 2010 RecordedInvestment % ofTotal ValuationAllowance % ofRecordedInvestment RecordedInvestment % ofTotal ValuationAllowance % ofRecordedInvestment (In millions) Commercial: Performing $ 40,106 99.1 % $ 339 0.8 % $ 37,487 99.1 % $ 528 1.4 % Restructured (1) 248 0.6 44 17.7 % 93 0.2 6 6.5 % Potentially delinquent 23 0.1 15 65.2 % 180 0.5 28 15.6 % Delinquent or under foreclosure 63 0.2 % 58 0.2 % Total $ 40,440 100.0 % $ 398 1.0 % $ 37,818 100.0 % $ 562 1.5 % Agricultural (2): Performing $ 12,899 98.3 % $ 41 0.3 % $ 12,486 97.9 % $ 35 0.3 % Restructured (3) 58 0.4 7 12.1 % 33 0.3 8 24.2 % Potentially delinquent 25 0.2 4 16.0 % 62 0.5 11 17.7 % Delinquent or under foreclosure (3) 147 1.1 29 19.7 % 170 1.3 34 20.0 % Total $ 13,129 100.0 % $ 81 0.6 % $ 12,751 100.0 % $ 88 0.7 % Residential (4): Performing $ 664 96.4 % $ 1 0.2 % $ 2,145 96.1 % $ 12 0.6 % Restructured (5) % 4 0.2 % Potentially delinquent % 4 0.2 % Delinquent or under foreclosure (5) 25 3.6 1 4.0 % 78 3.5 2 2.6 % Total (6) $ 689 100.0 % $ 2 0.3 % $ 2,231 100.0 % $ 14 0.6 % (1) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, restructured commercial mortgage loans were comprised of 10 and five restructured loans, respectively, all of which were performing. (2) Of the $13.1 billion of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, 50% were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these mortgage loans have been successfully reset, refinanced or extended at market terms. (3) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, restructured agricultural mortgage loans were comprised of 11 and five restructured loans, respectively, all of which were performing. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, delinquent or under foreclosure agricultural mortgage loans included four and two restructured loans with a recorded investment of $13 million and $29 million, respectively, which were not performing. (4) Residential mortgage loans held for investment consist primarily of first lien residential mortgage loans and, to a much lesser extent, second lien residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. (5) There were no restructured residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, restructured residential mortgage loans were comprised of 12 restructured loans, all of which were performing. (6) The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held for investment was transferred to held for sale in connection with the pending disposition of certain operations of MetLife Bank. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 154 Table of Contents See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present, by portfolio segment, mortgage loans by credit quality indicator, impaired mortgage loans, past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans, as well as loans modified through troubled debt restructurings. Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Monitoring Process Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans. The Company reviews all commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan to value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, such as loans with higher loan to value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and property type basis. Loan to value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans. Loan to value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of agricultural mortgage loans. Loan to value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan to value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A loan to value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. For commercial mortgage loans, the average loan to value ratio was 61% and 66% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the average debt service coverage ratio was 2.1x at December 31, 2011, as compared to 2.4x at December 31, 2010. The commercial mortgage loan debt service coverage ratio and loan to value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio updated each quarter. For agricultural mortgage loans, the average loan to value ratio was 48% and 49% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The values utilized in calculating the agricultural mortgage loan loan to value ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated. Mortgage Loan Credit Quality Monitoring Process Residential Mortgage Loans. The Company has a conservative residential mortgage loan portfolio and does not hold any option ARMs, sub prime or low teaser rate loans. Higher risk loans include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan to value ratios and interest only loans. The Companys investment in residential junior lien loans and residential mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio of 80% or more was $74 million and $95 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and certain of the higher loan to value residential mortgage loans have mortgage insurance coverage which reduces the loan to value ratio to less than 80%. Additionally, the Companys investment in traditional residential interest only mortgage loans was $6 million and $389 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances. The Companys valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses. The Company records additions to and decreases in its valuation allowances and gains and losses from the sale of loans in net investment gains (losses). The Company records valuation allowances for loans considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate; (ii) the estimated fair value of the loans underlying collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent; or (iii) the loans observable market price. 155 Table of Contents The Company also establishes valuation allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, loan to value ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook, as well as other relevant factors. The determination of the amount of, and additions or decreases to, valuation allowances is based upon the Companys periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with its loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon several factors, including the Companys experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem loans will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit migration including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance. Such changes in the valuation allowance are recorded in net investment gains (losses). See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the activity in the Companys valuation allowances, by portfolio segment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and for tables that present the Companys valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, by portfolio segment, at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Impairments to estimated fair value included within net investment gains (losses) for impaired mortgage loans were $18 million and $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of the impaired mortgage loans after these impairments was $209 million and $197 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which are carried at estimated fair value based on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker quotations, if lower, of which $151 million and $164 million related to impaired mortgage loans held for investment and $58 million and $33 million to certain mortgage loans held for sale, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These impaired mortgage loans were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value is categorized as Level 3 due to the lack of transparency and unobservability in collateral valuation and independent broker quotations. Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures The Company diversifies its real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of concentration. Of the Companys real estate investments, 83% are primarily located in the United States, with the remaining 17% located outside the United States, at December 31, 2011. The three locations with the largest real estate investments were California, Japan and Florida at 19%, 14%, and 12%, respectively, at December 31, 2011. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding real estate and real estate joint venture investments. 156 Table of Contents Real estate and real estate joint venture investments by property type are categorized as follows: December 31, 2011 2010 Carrying Value % of Total Carrying Value % of Total (In millions) (In millions) Office $ 5,089 59.4 % $ 4,369 54.4 % Apartments 1,610 18.8 1,774 22.1 Real estate investment funds 562 6.6 552 6.9 Industrial 427 5.0 433 5.4 Retail 332 3.9 389 4.8 Hotel 218 2.5 233 2.9 Land 126 1.5 133 1.7 Agriculture 14 0.2 17 0.2 Other 185 2.1 130 1.6 Total real estate and real estate joint ventures $ 8,563 100.0 % $ 8,030 100.0 % There were no impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment for the year ended December 31, 2011. Impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures held for investment were $48 million and $160 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which included impairments on cost basis real estate joint ventures of $25 million and $82 million, respectively. There were no impaired cost basis real estate joint ventures held as of December 31, 2011. The estimated fair value of the impaired cost basis real estate joint ventures, after impairments, held as of December 31, 2010, was $8 million. These impairments to estimated fair value represent non recurring fair value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and limited price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. Impairments recognized on real estate held for sale were $2 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no impairments recognized on real estate held for sale for the year ended December 31, 2009. Other Limited Partnership Interests The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that principally make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $6.4 billion at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, which included $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion of hedge funds, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Impairments to estimated fair value for such other limited partnership interests of $5 million, $12 million and $354 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were recognized within net investment gains (losses). The estimated fair value of the impaired other limited partnership interests after these impairments was $13 million, $23 million and $561 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These impairments to estimated fair value represent non recurring fair value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and limited price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. Other Invested Assets See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Companys other invested assets by type at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and related information. Short term Investments and Cash Equivalents The carrying value of short term investments, which includes securities and other investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase was $17.3 billion and $9.4 billion, or 3.3% and 2.0% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The 157 Table of Contents carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes securities and other investments with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase, was $5.0 billion and $9.6 billion, or 1.0% and 2.0% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives. The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and equity market risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for: A comprehensive description of the nature of the Companys derivative instruments, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in managing various risks. Information about the notional amount, estimated fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of the Companys derivative financial instruments, excluding embedded derivatives held at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Hedging. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about: The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives and non derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments by type of hedge designation at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives that are not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The statement of operations effects of derivatives in cash flow, fair value, or non qualifying hedge relationships for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Management of Market Risk Exposures Hedging Activities for more information about the Companys use of derivatives by major hedge program. Fair Value Hierarchy. Derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2011 DerivativeAssets DerivativeLiabilities (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ 62 1 % $ 103 3 % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) 14,746 90 3,750 93 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 1,392 9 158 4 Total estimated fair value $ 16,200 100 % $ 4,011 100 % The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3 inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income. 158 Table of Contents Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31, 2011 include: interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; interest rate lock commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including pull through rates; equity variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and priced through independent broker quotations; credit default swaps based upon baskets of credits having unobservable credit spreads, or that are priced through independent broker quotations; equity options with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker quotations; and credit forwards having unobservable repurchase rates. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, 5% and 2%, respectively, of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced via independent broker quotations. A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 173 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings 637 Other comprehensive income (loss) 344 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements 156 Transfer into and or out of Level 3 (76 ) Balance, end of period $ 1,234 See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Derivative Financial Instruments for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. Credit Risk. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how the Company manages credit risk related to its freestanding derivatives, including the use of master netting agreements and collateral arrangements. The Companys policy is not to offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. This policy applies to the recognition of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheets, and does not affect the Companys legal right of offset. The estimated fair value of the Companys net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral were as follows at December 31, 2011: December 31, 2011 Net DerivativeAssets Net DerivativeLiabilities (In millions) Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements (1) $ 12,905 $ 619 Cash collateral on OTC Derivatives (9,493 ) (8 ) Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash Collateral (1) 3,412 611 Securities Collateral on OTC Derivatives (2) (2,520 ) (416 ) Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral (1) 892 195 Estimated Fair Value of Exchange Traded Derivatives 54 30 Total Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral (1) $ 946 $ 225 159 Table of Contents (1) Includes income accruals on derivatives. (2) The collateral is held in separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets. Credit Derivatives. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to the Companys written credit default swaps. Embedded Derivatives. The embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows: December 31, 2011 Net Embedded Derivatives Within Asset HostContracts Liability HostContracts (In millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) $ % $ % Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) 1 1 19 1 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 362 99 4,565 99 Total estimated fair value $ 363 100 % $ 4,584 100 % A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions) Balance, beginning of period $ (2,438 ) Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in: Earnings (1,191 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (119 ) Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (455 ) Transfer into and or out of Level 3 Balance, end of period $ (4,203 ) The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011, were gains (losses) of $1.8 billion in connection with this adjustment. See Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Derivative Financial Instruments for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Credit Facilities and Committed Facilities The Company maintains unsecured credit and committed facilities with various financial institutions. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities for further descriptions of such arrangements. Collateral for Securities Lending and Derivative Financial Instruments The Company has non cash collateral for securities lending from counterparties on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The 160 Table of Contents Company participates in a securities lending program in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio. The amount of this collateral was $371 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. There was no non cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from customers at December 31, 2010. See Investments Securities Lending and Securities Lending in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Companys securities lending program and the classification of revenues and expenses and the nature of the secured financing arrangement and associated liability. The Company has non cash collateral from counterparties for derivative financial instruments, which can be sold or repledged subject to certain constraints, and has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage various risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The amount of this collateral was $2.5 billion and $984 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which were held in separate custodial accounts and not recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements and Derivatives in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the earned income on and the gross notional amount, estimated fair value of assets and liabilities and primary underlying risk exposure of the Companys derivative financial instruments. Lease Commitments The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology and other equipment. The Companys commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Guarantees See Guarantees in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Additionally, the Company has the following commitments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Companys total return on its investment portfolio: Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments; Mortgage Loan Commitments; and Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments. See Net Investment Income and Net Investment Gains (Losses) in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the investment income, investment expense, gains and losses from such investments. See also Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available for Sale, Mortgage Loans, Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures, and Other Limited Partnerships in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our investments in fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and partnership investments. Other than the commitments disclosed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations for further information on commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In addition, see Primary Risks Managed by Derivative Financial Instruments and Non Derivative Financial Instruments in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on interest rate lock commitments. 161 Table of Contents Policyholder Liabilities We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future. Our actuarial liabilities for future benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities. Insurance regulators in many of the non U.S. countries in which MetLife operates require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves posted in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See Business International Regulation. We have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man made events such as terrorist attacks. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils. Future Policy Benefits We establish liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Insurance Products. Future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, LTC policies, active life policies and premium stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under participating life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk, the Company has often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. The Company entered into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts. Retirement Products. Future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for life contingent income annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life contingencies, liabilities for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDBs) included in certain annuity contracts, and a certain portion of guaranteed living benefits. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Corporate Benefit Funding. Liabilities are primarily related to payout annuities, including pension closeouts and structured settlement annuities. There is no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result, however, the Company has employed various asset/liability management strategies, including the use of various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. 162 Table of Contents Auto & Home. Future policy benefits include liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon the Companys historical experience and analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. Japan and Other International Regions. Future policy benefits are held primarily for traditional life and accident and health contracts in Japan, Asia Pacific and immediate annuities in Latin America. They are also held for total return pass thru provisions included in certain universal life and savings products mainly in Japan and Latin America, and traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts sold in various countries in Asia Pacific. They also include certain liabilities for variable annuity guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees sold in Japan and Asia Pacific. Finally, in Europe and the Middle East, they also include unearned premium liabilities established for credit insurance contracts covering death, disability and involuntary loss of employment, as well as traditional life, accident and health and endowment contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, asset impairments, and actual mortality resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and through the development of periodic experience studies. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of prior year losses. Corporate & Other. Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for quota share reinsurance agreements for certain LTC and workers compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (MICC), prior to its acquisition by MetLife, Inc. These are run off businesses that have been included within Corporate & Other since the acquisition of MICC. Policyholder Account Balances PABs are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred upon surrender. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Insurance Products. PABs are held for death benefit disbursement retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies, specialized life insurance products for benefit programs and general account universal life policies. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by the Company, which are influenced by current market rates. The majority of the PABs have a guaranteed minimum credited rate between 0.5% and 6.0%. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees. The Company has various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Retirement Products. PABs are held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed account portion of variable annuities, for certain income annuities, and for certain portions of guaranteed benefits. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by the Company. Credited rates for deferred annuities are influenced by current market rates, and most of these contracts have a minimum guaranteed rate between 1.0% and 4.0%. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Corporate Benefit Funding. PABs are comprised of funding agreements. Interest crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index, 163 Table of Contents most commonly (1 month or 3 month) LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual maturity date. The Company may invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The Company also mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges, including cross currency swaps. Japan and Other International Regions. PABs are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans in Japan and Latin America and to a lesser degree, amounts for unit linked type funds in certain countries across all regions that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings products sold in certain countries in Japan and Asia Pacific that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Japan and Asia Pacific are established in accordance with derivatives and hedging guidance and are also included within PABs. These liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and by hedging its variable annuity guarantees. Liabilities for unit linked type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. See Variable Annuity Guarantees. Variable Annuity Guarantees The Company issues, directly and through assumed reinsurance, certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net amount at risk (NAR) for guarantees can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements represents managements estimate of the current value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all exercised simultaneously at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that limit the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near future. Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and included in PABs. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, the non life contingent portion of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and the portion of certain GMIB that do not require annuitization. For more detail on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in PABs at: December 31, 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Business: Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit $ 52 $ 44 Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit 710 173 Guaranteed minimum income benefit 988 (51 ) International: Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit 694 454 Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit 2,000 1,936 Total $ 4,444 $ 2,556 Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were gains (losses) of ($1.3) billion and ($269) million, respectively, in embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair 164 Table of Contents value of the guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. In connection with this adjustment, gains (losses) of $1.8 billion and ($96) million are included in the gains (losses) of ($1.3) billion and ($269) million in net derivative gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk, a decrease in the Companys credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to increase. Conversely, a widening of the Companys credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease. The Company uses derivative instruments and reinsurance to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. The derivative instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures, equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk is not hedged. The table below presents the estimated fair value of the derivatives hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives: Primary Underlying Risk Exposure Instrument Type December 31, 2011 2010 NotionalAmount Estimated Fair Value NotionalAmount Estimated Fair Value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities (In millions) Interest rate Interest rate swaps $ 22,719 $ 1,869 $ 598 $ 13,762 $ 401 $ 193 Interest rate futures 11,126 17 16 5,822 32 10 Interest rate options 11,372 567 6 614 15 Foreign currency Foreign currency forwards 2,311 41 4 2,320 46 1 Foreign currency futures 177 Equity market Equity futures 4,916 15 10 6,959 17 9 Equity options 16,367 3,239 177 32,942 1,720 1,196 Variance swaps 18,402 390 75 17,635 190 118 Total rate of return swaps 1,274 8 31 1,547 Total $ 88,664 $ 6,146 $ 917 $ 81,601 $ 2,421 $ 1,527 Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were gains (losses) of $3.2 billion and $113 million related to the change in estimated fair value of the above derivatives. Additionally, included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were gains (losses) of $26 million and ($35) million, respectively, related to ceded reinsurance. Guarantees, including portions thereof, have liabilities established that are included in future policy benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the life contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of GMIB that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At each reporting period, the Company updates the actual amount of business remaining in force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings. 165 Table of Contents The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in future policy benefits at: December 31, 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Business: Guaranteed minimum death benefit $ 260 $ 167 Guaranteed minimum income benefit 723 507 International: Guaranteed minimum death benefit 118 66 Guaranteed minimum income benefit 149 116 Total $ 1,250 $ 856 Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2011 is a charge of $394 million and for the year ended December 31, 2010 is a charge of $302 million, related to the respective change in liabilities for the above guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative instruments used are primarily equity futures, treasury futures and interest rate swaps. Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were gains (losses) of $86 million and $8 million, respectively, related to reinsurance agreements containing embedded derivatives carried at estimated fair value and gains (losses) of ($87) million and ($275) million, respectively, related to freestanding derivatives. While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed for guarantees included in both PABs and in future policy benefits, as well as other management actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of the Companys reinsurance agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of which, significantly reduces the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that is not hedged, changes in the nonperformance risk may result in significant volatility in net income. Other Policy related Balances Other policy related balances include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder dividends left on deposit. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Policyholder Dividends Payable Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio 166 Table of Contents and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. The global economy and markets are still affected by a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007. This disruption adversely affected the financial services sector, in particular, and global capital markets. Consequently, financial institutions paid higher spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities than before the market disruption began. Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. Although the August 2011 downgrade by S&P of U.S. Treasury securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer term impact cannot be predicted. In November 2011, Fitch warned that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S. It is possible that the August 2011 S&P downgrade and any future downgrades, as well as continued concerns about U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., could have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, could further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and could disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. All of these factors could affect the Companys ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain capital. See Industry Trends, Investments Current Environment and Risk Factors Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Liquidity Management Based upon the strength of its franchise, diversification of its businesses and strong financial fundamentals, we continue to believe the Company has ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and unlikely but reasonably possible stress scenarios. The Companys short term liquidity position includes cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Companys short term liquidity position was $16.2 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries in light of changing needs and opportunities. See Investments Current Environment. Capital Management The Company has established several senior management committees as part of its capital management process. These committees, including the Capital Management Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee (comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc.s Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer and, in the case of the Enterprise Risk Committee, MetLife, Inc.s Chief Investment Officer), regularly review actual and projected capital levels (under a variety of scenarios including stress scenarios) and MetLifes capital plan in accordance with its capital policy. MetLifes Board and senior management are directly involved in the development and maintenance of MetLifes capital policy. The capital policy sets forth, among other things, minimum and target capital levels and the governance of the capital management process. All capital actions, including proposed changes to the capital plan, capital targets or capital policy, are reviewed by the Finance and Risk Committee of the Board prior to obtaining full Board approval. The Board approves the capital policy and the annual capital plan and authorizes capital actions, as required. MetLifes 2012 capital plan, as submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval in January 2012 as part of the Federal Reserve Boards 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, was created in accordance with MetLifes capital policy. See Business U.S. Regulation Financial Holding Company Regulation. 167 Table of Contents The Company Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling six month forecast by portfolio of investment assets and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on the forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity, which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including funding agreements, and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, the Company has various alternatives available depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, the Companys access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate. If the Company requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements or is required to post or return cash collateral in connection with its investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, the Company may have difficulty selling investment assets in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, accounting guidance require the recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based upon the Companys ability to hold such securities, which may negatively impact the Companys financial condition. See Risk Factors Some of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset Classes That Have Been Experiencing Significant Market Valuation Fluctuations. In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a particular legal entity other than those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose are available to fund obligations of the general account of that legal entity. Capital The Companys capital position is managed to maintain its financial strength and credit ratings and is supported by its ability to generate strong cash flows at the operating companies, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise additional capital to meet its operating and growth needs. The Company was able to issue new debt and remarket outstanding debt during the difficult market conditions prevailing in the second half of 2008 and early 2009, as well as during the rebound and recovery periods beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and continuing into 2010. The increase in credit spreads experienced during the crisis resulted in an increase in the cost of capital, as well as increases in facility fees. Most recently, as a result of reductions in interest rates and credit spreads, the Companys interest expense and dividends on floating rate securities have been lower. Despite the still unsettled financial markets, the Company also raised new capital from successful offerings of MetLife, Inc.s common stock in August 2010 and March 2011. The August 2010 offering provided financing for the Acquisition and the March 2011 offering provided financing for the repurchase from AM Holdings of MetLife, Inc.s Convertible Preferred Stock that was issued in connection with the Acquisition. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Convertible Preferred Stock and Common Stock. 168 Table of Contents Rating Agencies. Rating agencies assign insurer financial strength ratings to MetLife, Inc.s domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to MetLife, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries. The level and composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and equity capital of the Company are among the many factors considered in determining the Companys insurer financial strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. A downgrade in the credit or insurer financial strength ratings of MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries would likely impact the cost and availability of financing for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. Statutory Capital and Dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements. Except for American Life, RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of MetLife, Inc.s domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels. American Life does not conduct insurance business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC requirements by Delaware law. In addition to Delaware, American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which the company operates and are subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries. The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to MetLife, Inc. or other parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. and other parent entities by their respective insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See Business U.S. Regulation Insurance Regulation, Business International Regulation, MetLife, Inc. Liquidity and Capital Sources Dividends from Subsidiaries and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 169 Table of Contents Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. The Companys primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are summarized as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Sources: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,290 $ 7,996 $ 3,803 Net cash provided by changes in policyholder account balances 4,321 4,557 Net cash provided by changes in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 6,444 3,076 Net cash provided by changes in bank deposits 96 3,164 Net cash provided by short term debt issuances 380 Long term debt issued 1,346 5,090 2,961 Collateral financing arrangements issued 105 Cash received in connection with collateral financing arrangements 100 775 Junior subordinated debt securities issued 500 Common stock issued, net of issuance costs 2,950 3,529 Stock options exercised 88 52 8 Common stock issued to settle stock forward contracts 1,035 Cash provided by other, net 125 Cash provided by the effect of change in foreign currency exchange rates 108 Total sources 26,140 24,300 12,459 Uses: Net cash used in investing activities 22,235 18,314 13,935 Net cash used for changes in policyholder account balances 2,282 Net cash used for changes in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 6,863 Net cash used for changes in bank deposits 32 Net cash used for short term debt repayments 606 1,747 Long term debt repaid 2,042 1,061 555 Collateral financing arrangements repaid 502 Cash paid in connection with collateral financing arrangements 63 400 Debt issuance costs 1 14 30 Redemption of convertible preferred stock 2,805 Preferred stock redemption premium 146 Dividends on preferred stock 122 122 122 Dividends on common stock 787 784 610 Cash used in other, net 304 42 Cash used in the effect of change in foreign currency exchange rates 22 129 Total uses 28,725 21,366 26,586 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (2,585 ) $ 2,934 $ (14,127 ) 170 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Sources Cash Flows from Operations. The Companys principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations. Cash Flows from Investments. The Companys principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities, sales of invested assets, settlements of freestanding derivatives and net investment income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market disruption. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process. Liquid Assets. An integral part of the Companys liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities; (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments; (iii) cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $258.9 billion and $245.7 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. For further discussion of invested assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements, see Investments Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. Dispositions. Net cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $449 million, $0 and $130 million, respectively. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is provided by a variety of short term instruments, including funding agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including short term and long term debt, preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities and equity and equity linked securities. The diversity of the Companys funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. The Companys global funding sources include: MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. (MetLife Funding) each have commercial paper programs supported by $4.0 billion in general corporate credit facilities (see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities). MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC), serves as a centralized finance unit for the Company. MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to MetLife, Inc., MLIC and other affiliates in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper program fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates financing arrangements. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities for its commercial paper program, including accrued interest payable, of $101 million and $102 million, respectively. MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use the FRB of NY Discount Window borrowing privileges. To utilize these privileges, MetLife Bank has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the FRB of NY as collateral. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Bank had no liability for advances from the FRB of NY under this facility. For further discussion of MetLife, Inc.s status as a bank holding company, see MetLife, Inc. Capital. 171 Table of Contents MetLife Bank has a cash need to fund residential mortgage loans that it originates and holds generally for a relatively short period before selling to one of the government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. The outstanding volume of residential mortgage originations varies from month to month and is cyclical within a month. To meet the variable funding requirements from this mortgage activity, as well as to increase overall liquidity from time to time, MetLife Bank takes advantage of short term collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLB of NY). MetLife Bank has entered into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has received cash advances and under which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on certain of MetLife Banks residential mortgage loans, mortgage loans held for sale, commercial mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities to collateralize MetLife Banks repayment obligations. Upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NYs recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Banks liability under the advances agreements. MetLife Bank has received advances from the FHLB of NY on both short term and long term bases, with a total liability of $4.8 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result of the recently announced exit from MetLife Banks forward mortgage origination business, MetLife Banks cash need to fund residential mortgage loans will be reduced. MetLife Bank also intends to discontinue entering into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY and intends to effect a transfer of any outstanding advances to MLIC in 2012. Additionally, in connection with the MetLife Bank Events and the transfer of the FHLB of NY advances, there may be timing differences in MetLife Banks cash flows giving rise to short term liquidity needs. Should these needs arise, the Company will provide MetLife Bank with temporary liquidity support through a possible combination of internally and externally sourced funds. See MetLife, Inc. Capital. The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities (SPEs) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $39.9 billion, $34.1 billion and $28.6 billion, respectively, and repaid $41.6 billion, $30.9 billion and $32.0 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, funding agreements outstanding, which are included in PABs, were $25.5 billion and $27.2 billion, respectively. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company also had obligations under funding agreements with the FHLB of NY of $11.7 billion and $12.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for MLIC, which are included in PABs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $7.4 billion, $10.8 billion and $16.7 billion, respectively, and repaid $8.3 billion, $11.8 billion and $18.1 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The liability for outstanding advances agreements entered into by MetLife Bank is expected to be transferred to MLIC in 2012 under newly executed funding agreements. MetLife Bank will transfer an agreed upon amount of cash as part of such transfer and the liability will be included in PABs for MLIC. The Company had obligations under funding agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (FHLB of Boston) of $450 million and $100 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for MICC, which are included in PABs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $425 million, $0 and $0, respectively, and repaid $75 million, $225 million and $200 million, respectively, of such funding agreements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company had obligations under funding agreements with the FHLB of Des Moines of $220 million for MetLife Investors Insurance Company (MLIIC) and $475 million for General American Life Insurance Company (GALIC) at December 31, 2011, which are included in PABs. There were no funding agreements with the FHLB of Des Moines at December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued $295 million and repaid $75 million of such funding agreements for MLIIC. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued $700 million and repaid $225 million of such funding agreements for GALIC. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 172 Table of Contents MLIC and MICC have each issued funding agreements to the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac) and to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements; such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under all such funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of the Companys liability for funding agreements issued was $2.8 billion at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in PABs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $1.5 billion, $250 million and $0, respectively, and repaid $1.5 billion, $0 and $0, respectively, of such funding agreements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Outstanding Debt. The following table summarizes the outstanding debt of the Company at: December 31, 2011 2010 (In millions) Short term debt $ 686 $ 306 Long term debt (1) $ 20,624 $ 20,766 Collateral financing arrangements $ 4,647 $ 5,297 Junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,192 $ 3,191 (1) Excludes $3.1 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of long term debt relating to CSEs. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank received advances related to long term borrowings totaling $1.3 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank received advances related to short term borrowings totaling $10.1 billion, $12.5 billion and $26.3 billion, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings $3.0 billion in three series of debt securities (the Series C Debt Securities, the Series D Debt Securities and the Series E Debt Securities, and, together, the Debt Securities), which constitute a part of the MetLife, Inc. common equity units (the Equity Units) more fully described in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Debt Securities are subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at 1.56%, 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 1.98%), and carry initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023, June 15, 2024 and June 15, 2045, respectively. The interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful remarketings of the Debt Securities. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2045. In August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued senior notes as follows: $1.0 billion senior notes due February 6, 2014, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375%, payable semi annually; $1.0 billion senior notes due February 8, 2021, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.75%, payable semi annually; $750 million senior notes due February 6, 2041, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.875%, payable semi annually; and $250 million floating rate senior notes due August 6, 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 1.25%, payable quarterly. 173 Table of Contents In connection with these offerings, MetLife, Inc. incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the terms of the senior notes. In July 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities with a final maturity of August 2069. Interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 10.75% up to, but not including, August 1, 2039, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debt securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of three month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 7.548%, payable quarterly in arrears. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $5 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the securities. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the terms of the junior subordinated debt securities. In May 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.3 billion of senior notes due June 1, 2016. The senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semi annually. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $6 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes. In March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of floating rate senior notes due June 2012 under the FDICs Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The senior notes bear interest at a rate equal to three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes. In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. remarketed its existing $1.0 billion 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due 2019. Interest on these senior debt securities is payable semi annually. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. Collateral Financing Arrangements. As described more fully in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charlestons (MRC) reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an agreement in 2007 with an unaffiliated financial institution that referenced the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 35 year surplus notes by MRC. Under the agreement, MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of three month LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of three month LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below. Under this agreement, MetLife, Inc. may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Companys consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge collateral to MetLife, Inc. related to any increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early termination of this agreement. In December 2011, following regulatory approval, MRC repurchased and canceled $650 million in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes (the Partial Repurchase). Payments made by the Company in December 2011 associated with the Partial Repurchase, which also included payments made 174 Table of Contents to the unaffiliated financial institution, totaled $650 million, exclusive of accrued interest on the surplus notes. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of the surplus notes outstanding was $1.9 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution was $241 million and $425 million, respectively. In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. received $100 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to an increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. during 2010. During 2009, on a net basis, MetLife, Inc. received $375 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged collateral with an estimated fair value of $125 million and $49 million, respectively, to the unaffiliated financial institution. MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolinas (MRSC) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into an agreement in 2007 with an unaffiliated financial institution under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by trusts established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of three month LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing agreement may be extended by agreement of MetLife, Inc. and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2011 and 2010, no payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. During 2009, MetLife, Inc. contributed $360 million, as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively, since May 2007, MetLife, Inc. has contributed a total of $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited into the trusts. In addition, MetLife, Inc. may be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $92 million and $63 million under the agreement, respectively. Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. closed the remarketing of the Series B portion of its junior subordinated debt securities originally issued in 2005. The Series B junior subordinated debt securities were modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due February 15, 2019. MetLife, Inc. did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to MetLife, Inc. of $1.0 billion in exchange for shares of MetLife, Inc.s common stock. MetLife, Inc. delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. Credit and Committed Facilities. The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding $3.1 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $916 million at December 31, 2011. The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of the Companys affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding $5.4 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011. 175 Table of Contents See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these facilities. We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Companys actual future cash funding requirements. Covenants. Certain of the Companys debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2011. Preferred Stock. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Dividends for information on MetLife, Inc.s Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and 6.50% Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (collectively, the Preferred Stock). Convertible Preferred Stock. In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 6,857,000 shares of Series B contingent convertible junior participating non cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the Convertible Preferred Stock) convertible into approximately 68,570,000 shares (valued at $40.90 per share at the time of the Acquisition) of MetLife, Inc.s common stock (subject to anti dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of MetLife, Inc.s common stockholders. On March 8, 2011, MetLife, Inc. repurchased and canceled all of the Convertible Preferred Stock. See Common Stock below. Common Stock. In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share. On March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold the 78,239,712 shares of common stock in a public offering concurrent with a public offering by MetLife, Inc. of 68,570,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $43.25 per share for gross proceeds of $3.0 billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $16 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid in capital. The proceeds were used to repurchase the Convertible Preferred Stock. In August 2010, in connection with the financing of the Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued 86,250,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of $3.6 billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $94 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid in capital. In connection with the remarketing of the junior subordinated debt securities, in February 2009, MetLife, Inc. delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 3,549,211 and 2,182,174 new shares of common stock were issued for $115 million and $74 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock based awards. There were no new shares of common stock issued to satisfy the various stock option exercises and other stock based awards during the year ended December 31, 2009. There were no shares of common stock issued from treasury stock during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 332,121 shares and 861,586 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $18 million and $46 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock based awards. Equity Units. On the Acquisition Date, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of Equity Units. On March 8, 2011, concurrently with the public offering of common stock by MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings sold all the Equity Units in a public offering. The terms and conditions of the Equity Units were unaffected by the resulting transfers of ownership. The Equity 176 Table of Contents Units, which are mandatorily convertible securities, will initially consist of (i) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc.s common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to be approximately two, three and four years after closing of the Acquisition) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) and (ii) an interest in each of three series of Debt Securities of MetLife, Inc. The value of the purchase contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities. At future dates, the Series C, D and E Debt Securities will be subject to remarketing and sold to investors. Holders of the Equity Units who elect to include their Debt Securities in a remarketing can use the proceeds thereof to meet their obligations under the purchase contracts. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Equity Units. Liquidity and Capital Uses Acquisitions. Cash outflows for acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $233 million and $7.2 billion, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there were no cash outflows for acquisitions. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these acquisitions. Debt Repayments. In December 2011, MetLife, Inc. repaid its $750 million senior note with an interest rate of 6.13%. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments of $750 million, $349 million and $497 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY related to long term borrowings. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments to the FHLB of NY related to short term borrowings of $9.7 billion, $12.9 billion and $26.4 billion, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments of $21.2 billion to the FRB of NY and MICC made repayments of $300 million to the FHLB of Boston, each related to short term borrowings. Debt Repurchases. We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined in the Companys discretion. In December 2011, following regulatory approval, the Company repurchased $650 million in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes included in collateral financing arrangements. Insurance Liabilities. The Companys principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat by segment. In the Retirement Products segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, general account surrenders and withdrawals from annuity products were $4.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. In Corporate Benefit Funding, which includes pension closeouts, bank owned life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements (including funding agreements with the FHLB of NY, the FHLB of Des Moines and the FHLB of Boston) and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities that provide customers with limited liquidity rights, at December 31, 2011 there were $2.4 billion of funding agreements and other capital market products that could be put back to the Company after a period of notice. Of these liabilities, $535 million were subject to a notice period of 90 days. The remainder was subject to a notice period of five months or greater. An additional $188 million of Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Uses Contractual Obligations. 177 Table of Contents Dividends. The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock: Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate (In millions, except per share data) October 25, 2011 November 9, 2011 December 14, 2011 $ 0.74 $ 787 October 26, 2010 November 9, 2010 December 14, 2010 0.74 784 (1) October 29, 2009 November 9, 2009 December 14, 2009 0.74 610 (1) Includes dividends on convertible preferred stock issued in November 2010. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Convertible Preferred Stock. Common stock dividend decisions are determined by MetLife, Inc.s Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Companys current earnings, expected medium term and long term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. See Business U.S. Regulation Financial Holding Company Regulation and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for Preferred Stock is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Series APer Share Series AAggregate Series BPer Share Series BAggregate (In millions, except per share data) November 15, 2011 November 30, 2011 December 15, 2011 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 15, 2011 August 31, 2011 September 15, 2011 $ 0.2555555 $ 6 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 May 16, 2011 May 31, 2011 June 15, 2011 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 7, 2011 February 28, 2011 March 15, 2011 $ 0.2500000 6 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 26 $ 96 November 15, 2010 November 30, 2010 December 15, 2010 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 16, 2010 August 31, 2010 September 15, 2010 $ 0.2555555 6 $ 0.4062500 24 May 17, 2010 May 31, 2010 June 15, 2010 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 5, 2010 February 28, 2010 March 15, 2010 $ 0.2500000 6 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 26 $ 96 November 16, 2009 November 30, 2009 December 15, 2009 $ 0.2527777 $ 7 $ 0.4062500 $ 24 August 17, 2009 August 31, 2009 September 15, 2009 $ 0.2555555 6 $ 0.4062500 24 May 15, 2009 May 31, 2009 June 15, 2009 $ 0.2555555 7 $ 0.4062500 24 March 5, 2009 February 28, 2009 March 16, 2009 $ 0.2500000 6 $ 0.4062500 24 $ 26 $ 96 Share Repurchases. At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information relating to such authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not repurchase any shares. Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Companys capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price of MetLife, Inc.s common stock compared to managements assessment of the stocks underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See Business U.S. Regulation Financial Holding Company Regulation. 178 Table of Contents Residential Mortgage Loans Held for Sale. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held $15.2 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, in residential mortgage loans held for sale. From time to time, MetLife Bank has an increased cash need to fund mortgage loans that it holds generally for a relatively short period before selling to one of the government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. To meet these increased funding requirements, as well as to increase overall liquidity, MetLife Bank takes advantage of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the FRB of NY and the FHLB of NY. For further detail on MetLife Banks use of these funding sources, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Global Funding Sources. Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans were funded through issuance of GNMA securities, for which the corresponding liability at December 31, 2011 of $7.7 billion is included in other liabilities. Investment and Other. Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities lending activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation related liabilities. Also, the Company pledges collateral to, and has collateral pledged to it by, counterparties under the Companys current derivative transactions. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $9.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. See Investments Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Risk. With respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two notch downgrade would have increased the Companys derivative collateral requirements by $83 million at December 31, 2011. In addition, the Company has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it, in connection with collateral financing arrangements related to the reinsurance of closed block liabilities and universal life secondary guarantee liabilities. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements. Securities Lending. The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company obtains collateral, usually cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to the Company. Under the Companys securities lending program, the Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $24.2 billion and $24.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were on open, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to the Company on the next business day upon return of cash collateral. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2011 was $2.7 billion, of which $2.6 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements. Contractual Obligations. The following table summarizes the Companys major contractual obligations at December 31, 2011: Total (1) One Year orLess (1) More thanOne Year toThree Years (1) More thanThree Years toFive Years (1) More thanFive Years (1) (In millions) Future policy benefits $ 317,340 $ 6,348 $ 10,561 $ 13,444 $ 286,987 Policyholder account balances 295,341 33,909 48,569 32,605 180,258 Other policyholder liabilities 12,188 7,997 390 150 3,651 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 33,716 33,716 Bank deposits 10,575 9,309 1,218 48 Short term debt 686 686 Long term debt 30,054 2,390 4,804 6,126 16,734 Collateral financing arrangements 6,106 67 135 133 5,771 Junior subordinated debt securities 9,933 258 517 516 8,642 Commitments to lend funds 15,065 13,736 101 93 1,135 Operating leases 2,052 337 481 317 917 Other 25,324 24,850 31 443 Total $ 758,380 $ 133,603 $ 66,807 $ 53,432 $ 504,538 179 Table of Contents (1) The contractual obligations have not been adjusted for businesses expected to be divested in 2012, which are categorized according to the future timing of such obligations irrespective of the corresponding divestitures. See MetLife, Inc. Capital and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future policy benefits Future policy benefits include liabilities related to traditional whole life policies, term life policies, pension closeout and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, master terminal funding agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long term disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within future policy benefits are contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event, such as death, as well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of $4.6 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above. Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities associated with property and casualty contracts of $1.5 billion have been included using an estimate of the ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid under property and casualty contracts is not determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation presented above, especially as it relates to incurred but not reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years from the present date. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $317.3 billion exceeds the liability amount of $184.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. For the majority of the Companys insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. (See Policyholder account balances below.) Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table above due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments. 180 Table of Contents Policyholder account balances PABs include liabilities related to conventional guaranteed interest contracts, guaranteed interest contracts associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total control accounts, individual and group universal life, variable universal life and company owned life insurance. Included within PABs are contracts where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so, as well as those where the timing of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns. Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting adjustments of $381 million, as well as $4.3 billion relating to embedded derivatives, have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above as they represent accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot rates. The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $295.3 billion exceeds the liability amount of $217.7 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. See the comments under Future policy benefits above regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policyholder benefits and PABs. Other policyholder liabilities Other policyholder liabilities are comprised of other policy related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related to these balances are as follows: a. Other policy related balances includes liabilities for incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group term life, long term disability, LTC and dental; policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to unearned revenue and negative VOBA of $2.3 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, have been excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above because they reflect accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table above related to other policy related balances is equal to the liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the one year or less category due to the short term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. 181 Table of Contents b. Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the table above in the one year or less category at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet. c. The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long term projection of the performance of the closed block, we have reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. This was presented to reflect the long duration of the liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment. Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table above. The Company also holds non cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of $2.9 billion at December 31, 2011. Bank deposits Bank deposits of $10.6 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of $10.5 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest payments. Liquid deposits, including demand deposit accounts, money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at maturity. Short term debt, long term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities Amounts presented in the table above for short term debt, long term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet, as the amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above also include future interest on such obligations as described below. Short term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities of one year or less carrying fixed interest rates. The contractual obligation for short term debt presented in the table above represents the principal amounts due upon maturity plus the related future interest for the period from January 1, 2012 through maturity. Long term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2012 through maturity. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2011 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Long term debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of $1 million, $6 million, $2 million and $28 million, in the one year or less, more than one year to three years, more than three years to five years and more than five years categories, respectively. Long term debt presented in the table above excludes $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011 of long term debt relating to CSEs. Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2012 through maturity. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2011 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Pursuant to these collateral financing arrangements, MetLife, Inc. may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements. 182 Table of Contents Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed interest rates through their respective redemption dates. Future interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2012 through the scheduled redemption dates, as it is the Companys expectation that the debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion. Commitments to lend funds The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration dates of the corresponding commitments. As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. Operating leases As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Other liabilities presented in the table above are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance agreements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, and general accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the one year or less category. The other liabilities presented in the table above differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by $5.6 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such as legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. The net funded status of the Companys pension and other postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above. Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary contributions of $205 million expected to be made by the Company to the pension plan in 2012 and the contributions of $109 million expected to be made by the Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2012. Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. with little impact on MetLife, Inc.s cash flows. Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest of $679 million and $235 million, respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also excluded from the table. Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully offset 183 Table of Contents by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected with the separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations were not material to its consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31, 2011. Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate insurance regulators as required. Support Agreements. MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries (each, an Obligor) are parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entitys insurance liabilities. We anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place demands upon the Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Company to meet anticipated demands. See MetLife, Inc. Liquidity and Capital Uses Support Agreements. Litigation. Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Companys consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Companys business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Companys compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For material matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable, no accrual is made but the Company discloses the nature of the contingency and an aggregate estimate of the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, when such an estimate can be made. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Companys financial position, based on information currently known by the Companys management, in its opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. 184 Table of Contents MetLife, Inc. Capital Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies. MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and bank and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking regulatory agencies, all of MetLife, Inc.s and MetLife Banks risk based and leverage capital ratios met the federal banking regulatory agencies, well capitalized standards. In addition to requirements which may be imposed in connection with the implementation of Dodd Frank, such as the enhanced prudential standards under proposed Regulation YY, if adopted in the U.S., Basel III will also lead to increased capital and liquidity requirements for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. See Business U.S. Regulation, Industry Trends and Risk Factors Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth. Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Banks FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, MetLife, Inc. will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non bank systemically important financial institution, it would once again be regulated by the Federal Reserve (including its capital requirements) and may be subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. In October 2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non bank financial company should be so subject. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. For further information, see Industry Trends. The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and MetLife Bank: MetLife, Inc. RBC Ratios Bank Holding Company RegulatoryRequirements Minimum RegulatoryRequirements Well Capitalized December 31, 2011 2010 Total RBC Ratio 10.25 % 8.52 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 9.98 % 8.21 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.32 % 5.11 % 4.00 % N/A Tier 1 Common Ratio 9.39 % 6.97 % N/A N/A MetLife Bank RBC Ratios Bank RegulatoryRequirements Minimum RegulatoryRequirements Well Capitalized December 31, 2011 2010 Total RBC Ratio 12.55 % 15.00 % 8.00 % 10.00 % Tier 1 RBC Ratio 12.54 % 14.16 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 5.27 % 7.14 % 4.00 % 5.00 % Tier 1 Common Ratio 9.72 % 13.56 % N/A N/A 185 Table of Contents Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. For information regarding the primary sources and uses of MetLife, Inc.s liquidity and capital, see The Company Capital Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital. Liquidity and Capital Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit and committed facilities. MetLife, Inc. is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost effective sources of funds, are critical components of MetLife, Inc.s liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit MetLife, Inc.s access to liquidity. MetLife, Inc.s ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See The Company Capital Rating Agencies. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on MetLife, Inc.s liquidity. Liquidity and Capital Sources Dividends from Subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. MetLife, Inc.s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid: 2012 2011 2010 2009 Company Permitted w/oApproval (1) Paid(2) Permitted w/oApproval (3) Paid (2) Permitted w/oApproval (3) Paid (2) Permitted w/oApproval (3) (In millions) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company $ 1,350 $ 1,321 (4) $ 1,321 $ 631 (4) $ 1,262 $ $ 552 American Life Insurance Company $ 168 (5) $ 661 $ 661 (5) $ (6) $ 511 (5) $ N/A $ N/A MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut $ 504 $ 517 $ 517 $ 330 $ 659 $ $ 714 Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company $ $ 30 $ $ 260 $ $ 300 $ 9 Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company $ 82 $ 80 $ 80 $ 569 (7) $ 93 $ $ 88 MetLife Investors Insurance Company $ 18 $ $ $ $ $ $ Delaware American Life Insurance Company $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ N/A $ N/A 186 Table of Contents (1) Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2012 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends previously paid over rolling 12 month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2012, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. (2) All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. (3) Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval. (4) Includes securities transferred to MetLife, Inc. of $170 million and $399 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (5) Reflects approximate dividend amounts permitted to be paid without prior regulatory approval. (6) Reflects the respective dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (7) Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to MetLife, Inc. as an in kind dividend of $475 million. In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash dividends in the aggregate amount of $139 million, $0 and $215 million, respectively, were paid to MetLife, Inc. by certain of its other subsidiaries. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife, Inc. received cash of $771 million, $54 million and $0, respectively, representing returns of capital. The dividend capacity of our non U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments to the parent to a portion of the prior years statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of our non U.S. operations, including Japans Financial Services Agency, may also limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers are deemed to be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the non U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of the non U.S. subsidiaries are second tier subsidiaries which are owned by various non U.S. holding companies. The capital and rating considerations applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into MetLife, Inc. The Companys management actively manages its target and excess capital levels and dividend flows on a proactive basis and forecasts local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain the desired rating or level of financial strength in the relevant market. Management of MetLife, Inc. cannot provide assurances that MetLife, Inc.s subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to MetLife, Inc. in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquid Assets. An integral part of MetLife, Inc.s liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Companys securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and publicly traded securities; and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had $4.2 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. In addition, MetLife, Inc. has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $449 million and $362 million, respectively, of liquid assets under collateral support agreements. 187 Table of Contents Dispositions. Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $180 million, $0 and $130 million, respectively. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions. Global Funding Sources. Liquidity is also provided by a variety of short term instruments, including commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including medium and long term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements, capital securities and stockholders equity. The diversity of MetLife, Inc.s funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of MetLife, Inc.s liquidity include programs for short term and long term borrowing, as needed. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans in light of changing requirements and market conditions. Long term Debt. The following table summarizes the outstanding long term debt of MetLife, Inc. at: December 31, 2011 2010 (In millions) Long term debt unaffiliated $ 15,666 $ 16,258 Long term debt affiliated (1) $ 500 $ 665 Collateral financing arrangements $ 2,797 $ 2,797 Junior subordinated debt securities $ 1,748 $ 1,748 (1) Includes $165 million of affiliated senior notes associated with bonds held by ALICO at December 31, 2010. Such bonds were sold to a third party in the second quarter of 2011. Short term Debt. MetLife, Inc. maintains a commercial paper program, proceeds of which can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. had no short term debt outstanding at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. There was no short term debt activity in both 2011 and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on short term debt, comprised only of commercial paper, was 1.25%. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance on short term debt was $5 million, and the average days outstanding was six days. Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. For information on MetLife, Inc.s debt issuances and other borrowings, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. 188 Table of Contents Senior Notes. The following table summarizes MetLife, Inc.s outstanding senior notes series by maturity date, excluding any premium or discount, at December 31, 2011: Maturity Date Principal Interest Rate (In millions) 2012 $ 400 5.38% 2012 $ 397 three month LIBOR + .032% 2013 $ 500 5.00% 2013 $ 250 three month LIBOR + 1.25% 2014 $ 350 5.50% 2014 $ 1,000 2.38% 2015 $ 1,000 5.00% 2016 $ 1,250 6.75% 2018 $ 1,035 6.82% 2018 (1) $ 500 1.56% 2018 (2) $ 500 2.46% 2019 $ 1,035 7.72% 2020 $ 729 5.25% 2021 $ 1,000 4.75% 2023 (1) $ 500 1.56% 2024 $ 1,000 1.92% 2024 $ 673 5.38% 2032 $ 600 6.50% 2033 $ 200 5.88% 2034 $ 750 6.38% 2035 $ 1,000 5.70% 2041 $ 750 5.88% 2045 (2) $ 500 2.46% (1) Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series C Debt Securities. (2) Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series E Debt Securities. Collateral Financing Arrangements. For information on MetLife, Inc.s collateral financing arrangements, see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Collateral Financing Arrangements and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit and Committed Facilities. At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc., along with MetLife Funding, maintained $4.0 billion in unsecured credit facilities, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $3.1 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $916 million at December 31, 2011. MetLife, Inc. maintains committed facilities with a capacity of $300 million. At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $300 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. There were no remaining unused commitments at December 31, 2011. In addition, MetLife, Inc. is a party to committed facilities of certain of its subsidiaries, which aggregated $12.1 billion at December 31, 2011. The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of the Companys affiliated reinsurance liabilities. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on these facilities. Covenants. Certain of MetLife, Inc.s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. MetLife, Inc. believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2011. 189 Table of Contents Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock and Equity Units. For information on preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, common stock and equity units issued by MetLife, Inc., see The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock, and Equity Units, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Uses The primary uses of liquidity of MetLife, Inc. include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, our asset portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable MetLife, Inc. to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash needs. Acquisitions. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, there were no cash outflows for acquisitions. Cash outflows for acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7.2 billion. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these acquisitions. Affiliated Capital Transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife, Inc. invested an aggregate of $1.9 billion, $699 million (excludes the Acquisition) and $986 million, respectively, in various subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries and consisted of the following at: December 31, Subsidiaries Interest Rate Maturity Date 2011 2010 (In millions) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (1) Six month LIBOR + 1.80% December 31, 2011 $ $ 775 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (2) 7.13% December 15, 2032 400 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (2) 7.13% January 15, 2033 100 Total $ $ 1,275 (1) In April 2011, MLIC repaid in cash the $775 million surplus note issued to MetLife, Inc. in December 2009. The early redemption was approved by the New York Superintendent of Insurance. (2) On December 15, 2011, MLIC repaid in cash the $400 million and $100 million capital notes issued to MetLife, Inc. in December 2002. In September and November 2011, American Life issued notes to MetLife, Inc. for $100 million and $270 million, respectively. American Life repaid both notes during the fourth quarter of 2011. Debt Repayments. In December 2011, MetLife, Inc. repaid the $750 million senior note with an interest rate of 6.13%. MetLife, Inc. intends to repay all or refinance in whole or in part the debt that is due in 2012. See MetLife, Inc. Liquidity and Capital Sources Senior Notes. Support Agreements. MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. 190 Table of Contents In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. (RGARe), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on behalf of its Japan branch. Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest in MSI MetLife to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. (Exeter), under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc.s interest in MSI MetLife as described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. (MoRe), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC. In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited (MEL), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit linked annuity contracts issued by MEL. In January 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of MoRe, under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities that it assumed from MLIC. In December 2009, MetLife, Inc., in connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermonts (MRV) reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cells authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRVs reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cells authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Credit and Committed Facilities and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRCs reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSCs reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSCs 191 Table of Contents authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See The Company Liquidity and Capital Sources Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MetLife, Inc. has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MLIIC and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of a number of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third party banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent Events See Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and Investment Department along with the management of the business segments. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. Enterprise Risk Management. MetLife has established several financial and non financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. Further enhancing its committee structure, during the second quarter of 2010, MetLife created an Enterprise Risk Committee including the following voting members: the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment Officer and the Chief Risk Officer. This committee is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those risks. MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk management throughout MetLife and reports to MetLifes Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise Risk Management Departments primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the Companys approach for managing risk on an enterprise wide basis; 192 Table of Contents developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Committee of the Companys Board of Directors; with respect to credit risk, reporting to the Investment Committee of the Companys Board of Directors; and reporting on various aspects of risk to financial and non financial senior management committees. Asset/Liability Management. The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk adjusted investment income and risk adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the Financial Risk Management and Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management, the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product type. In addition, an ALM Steering Committee oversees the activities of the underlying ALM Committees. MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups. Market Risk Exposures The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market. Interest Rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, PABs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium and long term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing and ALM strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. ALM strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See Risk Factors Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Companys investment portfolios and liabilities are the Euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Mexican peso and the Canadian dollar. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. 193 Table of Contents Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Company is primarily exposed to the Japanese yen, the Polish zloty, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Euro, the Korean won and the Canadian dollar. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. The Company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See Risk Factors Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability. Equity Market. The Company has exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain PABs along with investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. The Company also manages equity market risk exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under GAAP. Management of Market Risk Exposures The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Management. To manage interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Companys in force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The Department of Financial Services regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLifes review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. 194 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management. Foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. The Companys Treasury Department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department. The Investment Department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a periodic basis. The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with its investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. Equity Market Risk Management. Equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the Companys Asset/Liability Management Unit in partnership with the Investment Department. Equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses derivatives to mitigate its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include exchange traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. The Company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. Hedging Activities. MetLife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the Companys derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The Companys use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits The Company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees For certain Company liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability Contracts Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. Foreign Currency Risk The Company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to U.S. dollars. 195 Table of Contents General ALM Hedging Strategies In the ordinary course of managing the Companys asset/liability risks, the Company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used market rates at December 31, 2011. The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the Companys market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the Companys foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Companys future financial performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. 196 Table of Contents The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the Companys market sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011: December 31, 2011 (In millions) Non trading: Interest rate risk $ 4,319 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 4,547 Equity market risk $ 37 Trading: Interest rate risk $ 5 Foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 486 197 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Companys trading and non trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2011 NotionalAmount EstimatedFairValue (3) Assuming a10% Increasein the YieldCurve (In millions) Assets: Fixed maturity securities $ 350,271 $ (4,941 ) Equity securities 3,023 Trading and other securities 18,268 (5 ) Mortgage loans: Held for investment 59,560 (220 ) Held for sale 7,526 (35 ) Mortgage loans, net 67,086 (255 ) Policy loans 14,213 (125 ) Real estate joint ventures (1) 183 Other limited partnership interests (1) 1,656 Short term investments 17,310 (1 ) Other invested assets: Mortgage servicing rights 666 54 Other 1,434 Cash and cash equivalents 10,461 (1 ) Accrued investment income 4,344 Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 5,232 (227 ) Other assets 308 (10 ) Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 363 (17 ) Mortgage loan commitments $ 4,129 3 (2 ) Commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,432 51 Total Assets $ (5,530 ) Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ 740 Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 33,716 Bank deposits 10,507 Short term debt 686 Long term debt 22,514 186 Collateral financing arrangements 4,136 Junior subordinated debt securities 3,491 105 Other liabilities: Trading liabilities 127 2 Other 4,087 25 Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 1,677 Total Liabilities $ 2,735 Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ (1,049 ) Interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 (89 ) Interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 25 Interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 (103 ) Interest rate options $ 16,988 890 (200 ) Interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 (31 ) Synthetic GICs $ 4,454 Foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 14 Foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 1 Currency futures $ 633 Currency options $ 1,321 6 Credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 Credit forwards $ 20 4 Equity futures $ 7,053 16 Equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (90 ) Variance swaps $ 18,801 322 (7 ) Total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) Total Derivative Instruments $ (1,529 ) Net Change $ (4,324 ) 198 Table of Contents (1) Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. Interest rate risk has decreased by $1.1 billion, or 20%, to $4.3 billion at December 31, 2011 from $5.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in risk is primarily due to a large decline in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and U.S. Treasury curves which decreased risk by $1.8 billion. This decrease in risk was partially offset by a change in the net asset and liability bases of $590 million and the yield impact to long term debt of $230 million. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 199 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Companys portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2011 NotionalAmount EstimatedFairValue (1) Assuming a10% Increasein the ForeignExchange Rate (In millions) Assets: Fixed maturity securities $ 350,271 $ (7,945 ) Equity securities 3,023 (106 ) Trading and other securities 18,268 (486 ) Mortgage loans: Held for investment 59,560 (450 ) Held for sale 7,526 Mortgage loans, net 67,086 (450 ) Policy loans 14,213 (187 ) Other limited partnership interests 1,656 (10 ) Short term investments 17,310 (204 ) Other invested assets: Mortgage servicing rights 666 Other 1,434 (62 ) Cash and cash equivalents 10,461 (135 ) Accrued investment income 4,344 (7 ) Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 5,232 (162 ) Other assets 308 (7 ) Total Assets $ (9,761 ) Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ 3,375 Bank deposits 10,507 Long term debt 22,514 126 Payable for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 33,716 3 Other liabilities 4,087 163 Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 476 Total Liabilities $ 4,143 Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ (41 ) Interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 Interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 Interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 (3 ) Interest rate options $ 16,988 890 (17 ) Interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 Synthetic GICs $ 4,454 Foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 736 Foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 46 Currency futures $ 633 (53 ) Currency options $ 1,321 6 29 Credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 Credit forwards $ 20 4 Equity futures $ 7,053 16 (3 ) Equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (109 ) Variance swaps $ 18,801 322 Total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) Total Derivative Instruments $ 585 Net Change $ (5,033 ) 200 Table of Contents (1) Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $1.0 billion, to $5.0 billion at December 31, 2011 from $4.0 billion at December 31, 2010. This change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities (including trading and other securities) of $1.6 billion due to higher net exposures primarily to the British pound, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen. This was partially offset by an increase in the foreign exposure related to PABs and other liabilities and the use of derivatives employed by the Company of $274 million and $280 million, respectively. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 201 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis: Equity Market Prices. The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Companys portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: December 31, 2011 NotionalAmount EstimatedFairValue (1) Assuming a10% Increasein EquityPrices (In millions) Assets: Equity securities $ 3,023 $ 346 Other invested assets: Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 363 (17 ) Total Assets $ 329 Liabilities: Policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ Bank deposits 10,507 Other liabilities: Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 739 Total Liabilities $ 739 Derivative Instruments: Interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ Interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 Interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 Interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 Interest rate options $ 16,988 890 Interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 Synthetic GICs $ 4,454 Foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 Foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 Currency futures $ 633 Currency options $ 1,321 6 Credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 Credit forwards $ 20 4 Equity futures $ 7,053 16 (680 ) Equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (286 ) Variance swaps $ 18,801 322 13 Total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) (152 ) Total Derivative Instruments $ (1,105 ) Net Change $ (37 ) (1) Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity price risk. (2) Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) During the fourth quarter of 2011, the analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices determined that due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the Company, an increase of 10% had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior year ends analysis of equity prices shows a decrease of 10% had the most adverse effect. Equity price risk increased by $23 million to $37 million at December 31, 2011 from $14 million at December 31, 2010. This increase is primarily due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the Company. 202 Table of Contents 
 
