FILE:ALXN/ALXN-8K-20121108151324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________________
FORM 8-K    
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 8, 2012
    
ALEXION PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
-----------------------------------------------------------
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, Connecticut 06410
---------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:    (203) 272-2596
Item 8.01
    
Other Events.
On November 8, 2012, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $400 million of Alexions common stock. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on November 8, 2012.
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 8, 2012                    ALEXION PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
By:
    /s/ Michael V. Greco        
Name:    Michael V. Greco
Title:    Associate General Counsel and Corporate     Secretary

Alexion Announces $400 Million Share Repurchase Program
CHESHIRE, Conn. November 8, 2012 -- Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ALXN) (Alexion or the Company) today announced that the Companys Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $400 million of Alexion common stock.
Under the program, purchases may be made from time to time on the open market, or through privately negotiated transactions, block transactions, or other techniques, as determined by the Companys management and in accordance with prevailing market conditions and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alexion expects to fund all purchases from cash on hand and future cash flows from operations. The Boards authorization is open-ended and does not establish a timeframe for the purchases. The Company is not obligated to acquire a particular number of shares, and the program may be discontinued at any time at the Companys discretion.
About Alexion
Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients with severe and ultra-rare disorders through the innovation, development and commercialization of life-transforming therapeutic products. Alexion is the global leader in complement inhibition and has developed and markets Soliris (eculizumab) as a treatment for patients with PNH and aHUS, two debilitating, ultra-rare and life-threatening disorders caused by chronic uncontrolled complement activation. Soliris is currently approved in more than 40 countries for the treatment of PNH, and in the United States and the European Union for the treatment of aHUS. Alexion is evaluating other potential indications for Soliris and is developing four other highly innovative biotechnology product candidates. This press release and further information about Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. can be found at: www.alexionpharma.com.
1
[ALXN-G]
Safe Harbor Statement
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements related to the funding, timing and scope of the Company's stock repurchase program. Forward-looking statements are subject to factors that may cause Alexion's results and plans to differ from those expected, including for example, then current market conditions, anticipated cash flow and a variety of other factors and risks set forth from time to time in Alexion's filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the risks discussed in Alexion's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012 and in our other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Alexion does not intend to update any of these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, except when a duty arises under law.
Contacts
Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Irving Adler, 203-271-8210 Executive Director, Corporate Communications or Media: Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Kim Diamond, 203-439-9600 Director, Corporate Communications or Investors: Rx Communications Rhonda Chiger, 917-322-2569
2


