FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20041021162846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 21, 2004, Google is issuing a press release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Google is making reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the press release and the conference call. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Company reports revenues of $805.9 million, up 105 percent year over year in first post-IPO quarter.
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  October 21, 2004  Google Inc. (Nasdaq: GOOG) today announced financial results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We are very pleased with the results of this quarter. Record revenues, robust margins and cash generation all illustrated strong performance and execution over the last quarter," said Eric Schmidt, Google chief executive officer. "Our commitment to user and to the development of quality products and services for them clearly translated into robust financial results. That dedication to our users, combined with our relentless technology innovation and market opportunity make us very optimistic about our company's future."
Financial Highlights
 
Revenue in the quarter totaled a record $805.9 million, representing a 15 percent increase over the second quarter of 2004 and a 105 percent year-over-year gain. This revenue growth reflects strong traffic and monetization growth in the quarter as well as advertisers' growing recognition of the Internet as an effective advertising medium.
Revenue -
 
Google-owned sites generated $411.7 million or 51 percent of total revenue. This represents an increase of 99 percent over the third quarter of 2003.
Google-Sites Revenue
-
 
Revenue generated on Google's partner sites, through AdSense programs, contributed $384.3 million, or 48 percent of total revenue, a 120 percent increase over the Network revenue generated in the same quarter last year.
The Google Network
-
 
or the portion of revenue shared with Google's partners increased to $302.9 million or 79 percent of Google Network revenue. This compares to total payments to partners of $143.5 million in the third quarter of 2003, or 82 percent of Google Network revenue.
TAC  Traffic Acquisition Costs
 
Income from operations in the quarter, on a GAAP basis, totaled $11.1 million or 1.4 percent of revenue, and included a non-cash charge of $68.0 million for stock-based compensation as well as a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $201.0 million associated with the previously announced settlement of disputes with Yahoo. Without the non-recurring charge, income from operations would have been $212.1 million, or 26.3 percent of revenues as compared to $66.6 million or 16.9 percent of revenue in the same period of 2003. This improvement in operating margins, before the settlement of disputes with Yahoo, was primarily due to proportionately lower advertising revenue from Google Network members' sites, which resulted in lower traffic acquisition cost as a percentage of total revenue. A lower stock-based compensation charge, on a percentage basis, also contributed to the improvement.
Income from operations 
 
Google recorded a net income tax benefit of $37.0 million on its income statement in the third quarter compared to a $90.4 million provision for income taxes and a 53 percent effective tax rate last quarter, primarily as a result of a $46.0 million benefit recorded in the third quarter against the provision for income taxes related to certain stock-based compensation charges recognized prior to the IPO. This tax benefit was recorded as a result of our transformation from a private to a public company.
Income Taxes
 
Net income on a GAAP basis increased to $52.0 million or 6.5 percent of revenues in the third quarter as compared to $20.4 million or 5.2 percent of revenue in the third quarter of 2003. Earnings on a diluted per share basis were $0.19 as compared to $0.08 in the third quarter of 2003. Net income included the after tax effect of the non-cash and non-recurring settlement charge of $119.0 million and a tax benefit of $46.0 million related to certain stock-based compensation charges recognized prior to the IPO. Net income before these non-recurring items was $125.0 million, or $0.45 per share.
Net Income
 Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $608.9 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2004. Free cash flow is an alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities and is calculated as operating cash flows less capital expenditures. Free cash flow for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2004 totaled $349.0 million.
Operating and Free Cash Flow
 
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA before the non-cash stock-based compensation charge, the non-cash and non-recurring settlement charge and in-process R&D. It is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately $44 million or 16 percent to $321 million (or 40 percent of revenues) in the third quarter from $278 million (or 40 percent of revenues) in the second quarter. The reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of liquidity, net cash provided by operating activities, is set forth at the back of this release.
Adjusted EBITDA 
 
 At the end of the quarter, Google had a cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance of $1.86 billion.
Cash
 
On a worldwide basis, Google employed 2,668 full time employees as of Sept. 30, 2004, up from 2,292 as of June 30, 2004.
 
Webcast and conference call information
 
A live audio webcast of Google's third-quarter earnings release call will be available at The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. (PDT)/ 4:30 (EDT). This press release, the financial tables as well as other supplemental information including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, are also available at that site. A replay of the call will be available beginning at 7:30 PM EDT through midnight Monday, Oct. 25 by calling (888) 203-1112 in the United States or (719) 457-0820 for calls from outside the United States. The required confirmation code for the replay is 825570.
http://investor.google.com/news.html.
 
Forward looking statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements relating to Google's market opportunity and future business prospects. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted are included in Google's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and from time to time in other reports filed by Google with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
About non-GAAP financial measures.
 
To supplement Google's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Google uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance and liquidity. These non-GAAP measures are comprised of income from operations, net income and net income per share before material non-recurring items, as well as free cash flows and adjusted EBITDA. Google's management believes that income from operations before material non-recurring items and net income before material non-recurring items provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the company's core operating results because
they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to those core results and are of a non-recurring nature. Google's management believes that free cash flows and adjusted EBITDA provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity. Google believes that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Google's ongoing operations and liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Google's historical operating results and liquidity.
 
Google computes its non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. The accompanying tables have more details on the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to non-GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliations between these financial measures.
 
Media Contacts:
 
Google Inc.
David Krane, 650-623-4096
david@google.com
Steve Langdon, 650-623-4950
slangdon@google.com
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP results of operations measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures
 
The following table presents certain non-GAAP results before material non-recurring items (in thousands, unaudited):
 
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP liquidity measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures
 
1. Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in thousands, unaudited):
 
 
2. Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA(*) (in thousands, unaudited):
 
 


