FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20051223063836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 20, 2005, we entered into a letter agreement (the "") with Time Warner Inc. ("") and America Online, Inc. ("", and together with Google and Time Warner, the ""), pursuant to which the Parties agreed to consummate the transactions described in the Agreement. The Parties also agreed to negotiate and enter into definitive agreements, which are expected to be signed in the first calendar quarter of 2006, related to such transactions. The Parties have also agreed upon a binding expedited arbitration procedure, which should be completed during the first quarter of 2006, to resolve any disagreements between the Parties that would otherwise prevent the entering into of definitive agreements during the first quarter of 2006. The Agreement provides that, in the event the Parties do not enter into definitive agreements to consummate certain of the transactions described in the Agreement by February 18, 2006, the commercial transactions will take effect pursuant to the terms described in the Agreement.
Agreement
Time Warner
AOL
Parties
 
The material terms of the Agreement are as follows:
 
Investment by Google in AOL (the "AOL Investment")
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Transactions
 
The other transactions described in the Agreement are of a commercial nature, and the terms of the agreements and amendments are five years from the date of the Agreement.
 
. We and AOL have agreed to extend the term of our current multi-country web search services agreement and our current U.S. text-based advertising services agreement. We and AOL Europe have also committed to maintain our European text-based advertising agreement for the same term, and AOL Europe has the ability to further extend the term for two additional years. AOL has agreed that we will be its exclusive provider of the services provided under these agreements, subject to certain limitations. Although the U.S. text-based advertising services agreement is now subject to certain revenue guarantees from us to AOL that apply given certain conditions, we do not expect the net economics under these agreements to be materially different compared to that which would have otherwise resulted under the existing agreements.
Web Search Services and Sponsored Links
 
. In addition to the text-based advertising sold by us that is distributed through our sponsored links syndication network (including AOL), we have agreed to enable AOL to sell text-based advertising for distribution on the AOL properties. Our revenue share from such advertising sold by AOL for AOL properties is roughly equivalent to the revenue share retained by us under the text-based advertising agreement for AOL properties.
AOL Marketplace
 
. We have agreed to grant AOL certain information rights related to our network of display advertising space and the right to sell display advertising into that network.
Display Advertising
 
. We have agreed to provide AOL with advertising credits and other promotional opportunities for AOL content consistent with Google principles. We will also fund marketing efforts with third party media outlets to promote agreed-upon AOL properties, events or initiatives that will be sponsored by us.
Promotion
 
. We have agreed to assist AOL and Time Warner in understanding our published and/or publicly available tools for improving the accessibility of a web site's content to Google's web crawlers.
Content Availability
 
. We and AOL have agreed to develop the ability for users of AOL's Instant Messenger service and Google Talk to interact with both services from both the AOL Instant Messenger client and the Google Talk client, which will require a user to register a Google Talk user name with the AOL Instant Messenger Service in order to access it.
Instant Messaging
 
A press release announcing the Agreement was issued on December 20, 2005, a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including the statement that we do not expect the net economics of our text-based advertising services agreement with AOL to be materially different from our existing agreements with AOL. Actual results may differ materially from
our expected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include fluctuations in Internet usage and click-through rates on such sponsored links that could adversely affect the economics under the text-based advertising services agreement. More information about potential risk factors that could affect the success of our business and the Agreement with AOL is included in our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and from time to time in other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Time Warner's AOL and Google to Expand Strategic Alliance
 
Creating Global Advertising Partnership
 
Google to Invest $1 Billion for a 5% Stake in AOL
 
Companies to Collaborate on Online Video Offering and Make More AOL Content Available to Google Users
 
Google Talk Instant Messaging Software to Communicate With AIM Users
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., NEW YORK, NY, and DULLES, Va., December 20, 2005 - Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) and America Online, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. (NYSE: TWX), today announced that they are expanding their current strategic alliance. The agreement creates a global online advertising partnership, makes more of AOL's industry-leading content available to Google users, and includes a $1 billion investment in AOL by Google. This strategic alliance expands on the original relationship between the two companies launched three years ago.
 
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dick Parsons said: "We're very pleased to build significantly on our special relationship with Google in a way that will meaningfully strengthen AOL's position in the fast-growing online advertising business and help drive more advertisers to its Web properties. This agreement is key to fulfilling our commitment to realize the potential of AOL's very large online audience. As digital technologies continue to drive industries together, the great value and opportunity inherent in Time Warner's structure and array of premier businesses becomes increasingly clear. A critical piece of this strategic alliance will be our content, which we will be making more accessible to Google users."
 
Google Chief Executive Officer Eric Schmidt said: "AOL is one of Google's longest-standing partners, and we are thrilled to strengthen and expand our relationship. Today's agreement leverages technologies from both companies to connect Google users worldwide to a wealth of new content. We've also created a simple way for AOL Marketplace advertisers to buy and place search-related advertising across the AOL network. This partnership is an important next step for our companies."
 
Serving Users and Advertisers
 
Under the strategic alliance, Google and AOL will continue providing search technology to AOL's network of Internet properties worldwide. The agreement's broad range of new features for users and advertisers include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AOL and Google have also agreed to extend the term of their existing European relationship, and, subject to mutual agreement, they may extend the AOL Marketplace internationally. In addition, Google, AOL and Time Warner may choose to expand the new partnership to Time Warner's other advertising opportunities.
Google Investment in AOL
 
Google will invest $1 billion for an effective 5% equity stake in America Online, Inc., allowing the company to participate in AOL's future success. Google will become the only shareholder in AOL other than Time Warner. Time Warner will retain management control and full strategic flexibility over AOL, while Google will have certain customary minority shareholder rights, including those associated with any future sale or public offering of AOL. Additional financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
 
Don Logan, Chairman of Time Warner's Media & Communications Group, said: "We look forward to working with Google to extend our successful paid-search partnership to other forms of advertising. In addition, we're excited about the potential for driving more traffic to our network of Internet properties. This agreement builds on our 2004 acquisition of Advertising.com and our other efforts to make AOL a more attractive advertising partner. We're confident that this partnership marks the next big step in making AOL an even more important player in online advertising."
 
Mr. Schmidt continued: "Our investment underscores our recognition of AOL as a valuable strategic asset and our desire both to contribute to and participate in its future success. We look forward to working with Dick Parsons and the management teams at Time Warner and AOL to take our already successful AOL relationship to even greater heights."
 
Jonathan Miller, AOL's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said: "AOL and Google have a very successful history working together, and this is an opportunity to take it to a new level that will benefit both companies and the customers we serve. We are excited about working with Google on the next generation of AOL products, while further expanding our presence on the Web. This is a great moment for AOL."
 
About Google Inc.
 
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit .
www.google.com
 
About America Online, Inc.
 
America Online, Inc. and its subsidiaries operate a leading network of Web brands and the largest Internet access subscription service in the United States. Brands include the AOL service, the AOL.com website, and the AIM, MapQuest, Moviefone, Netscape, CompuServe and ICQ services. America Online offers a range of digital services including the TotalTalk voice service. The company also has operations in Canada and Europe. America Online, Inc. is based in Dulles, Virginia.
 
About Time Warner Inc.
 
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current expectations or beliefs of management of Google Inc. and Time Warner Inc., and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of the respective businesses of Google and Time Warner. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Google or Time Warner, as applicable, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including their respective most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Google and Time Warner are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter their respective forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Contacts:
 


