FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20051006134929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Shirley M. Tilghman was appointed to the board of directors (the "Board") of Google Inc. (the "Company") effective October 3, 2005. Pursuant to a letter agreement between the Company and Ms. Tilghman, dated August 16, 2005, the Company committed to grant Ms. Tilghman a non-qualified stock option to purchase 12,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock with an exercise price equal to the closing fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, which was October 3, 2005. The shares underlying the option vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after Ms. Tilghman commenced service as a member of the Board and an additional 1/60
th
each month thereafter, subject to her continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date. Also pursuant to the letter agreement, the Company committed to grant Ms. Tilghman 6,000 Google Stock Units ("GSUs"), with each GSU entitling Ms. Tilghman to receive one share of the Company's Class A common stock as the GSU vests. The GSUs vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after Ms. Tilghman commenced service as a member of the Board and an additional 1/20
th
each quarter thereafter, subject to her continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date. The option and GSUs are subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Stock Plan and their respective grant agreements. In addition, the Company is required to reimburse Ms. Tilghman for all reasonable expenses in connection with her services to the Company.
 
A copy of the letter agreement between the Company and Ms. Tilghman dated August 16, 2005 is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.18.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective October 3, 2005, Shirley M. Tilghman was appointed to the Board. The size of the Board was increased to ten in connection with the appointment. Ms. Tilghman has not been appointed to serve on any Board committees at this time.
 
A press release announcing the appointment was issued on October 5, 2005, a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.18
 
 
August 16
th
, 2005
 
Dear Ms. Tilghman,
 
Google Inc. (the "Company") is pleased to offer you a position as a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") effective as of the date of our next regularly-scheduled Board meeting, currently expected to be September 30, 2005. What follows is some information on the benefits available to you as a director of the Company (a "Director").
 
As compensation for your services to the Company, you will be granted two initial equity grants. The first grant will be an option to purchase 12,000 shares of Google Class A common stock. This will be a non-qualified stock option with an exercise price equal to the closing fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. The shares underlying the option will vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after you commence service as a Director and an additional 1/60
th
each month thereafter, subject to your continued service as a Director on the applicable vesting date. The second grant will be in the form of 6,000 Google Stock Units (GSUs). Each GSU will entitle you to one share of Google Class A common stock when the GSU vests. Your GSUs will vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after you commence service as a Director and an additional 1/20
th
each quarter thereafter, subject to your continued service as a Director on the applicable vesting date. Board grants take place on the first business day of the month following the date on which the Board approves the grant and you commence service on the Board. The option and GSUs shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Stock Plan and their respective grant agreements, all of which documents are incorporated herein by reference.
 
You shall also be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred by you in connection with your services to the Company, including reimbursement for first-class air travel. If on occasion commercial air travel makes attending Company business impractical, then the Company will pay for your reasonable travel expenses via private aircraft. All expense reimbursements are in accordance with established Company policies.
 
Board meetings are generally held on site at the Company quarterly and we would hope that your schedule would permit you to attend all of the meetings. In addition, there may be telephonic calls to address special projects that arise from time to time. The Board has delegated certain duties to other committees, which you may be asked participate on.
 
Nothing in this offer or the stock option agreement should be construed to interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company and the Company's stockholders to remove any individual from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
This letter sets forth the terms of your service with the Company and supersedes any prior representations or agreements, whether written or oral. This letter may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement, signed by an officer of the Company and by you.
 
We hope that you find the foregoing terms acceptable. You may indicate your agreement with these terms and accept this offer by signing and dating both the enclosed duplicate and original letter and returning them to me.
 
Shirley, I am looking forward to you joining the Company's Board of Directors. I believe you will make a significant contribution to the Company and will help us to navigate our way through the future direction of the Company.
 
Sincerely,
 
Google Inc.
 
/s/ John L. Hennessey
John L. Hennessey
on behalf of the Nominating Committee
 
ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO this
30 day of August, 2005
 
/s/ S.M. Tilghman             
Ms. Shirley Tilghman
 
Enclosure: Duplicate Original Letter

Exhibit 99.1
 
Google Appoints Shirley M. Tilghman, Ph.D., to its Board of Directors
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  October 5, 2005  Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced that Shirley M. Tilghman, Princeton University's President and Professor of Molecular Biology, was unanimously elected to join Google's Board of Directors. Dr. Tilghman is a world-renowned scholar, an exceptional teacher, and is respected worldwide for her pioneering research and advocacy of women in science.
 
"It's an honor to welcome a woman of Dr. Tilghman's reputation to our board," said Eric Schmidt, Chairman and CEO of Google. "Google is a company born out of university research, so we look forward to tapping into her extraordinary talents as an accomplished academic, and as a champion of discovery."
 
Dr. Tilghman made her mark during postdoctoral studies at the National Institutes of Health, where she participated in cloning the first mammalian gene. She continued to make scientific breakthroughs in the field of mammalian genetics as a member of the Institute for Cancer Research in Philadelphia and an adjunct associate professor of human genetics and biochemistry and biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania. Tilghman was a member of the National Research Council's committee that set the blueprint for the U.S. effort in the Human Genome Project and went on to become one of the founding members of the National Advisory Council of the Human Genome Project Initiative for the National Institutes of Health.
 
A native of Canada, Tilghman received her Honors B.Sc. in chemistry from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, and earned her Ph.D. in biochemistry from Temple University in Philadelphia. She joined Princeton in 1986 as the Howard A. Prior Professor of the Life Sciences, and took the role as founding director of Princeton's multi-disciplinary Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics in 1998. After serving on Princeton University's faculty for 15 years, Dr. Tilghman became the University's president in June 2001.
 
An advocate for encouraging women in science, she received national attention for a report on "Trends in the Careers of Life Scientists" that was issued in 1998 by a committee she chaired for the National Research Council. A recipient of numerous awards and honorary degrees, she is a member of the Royal Society of London, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
 
About Google Inc.
 
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit .
www.google.com
 
Media Contact:
Lynn Fox
Google Inc.
650.253.2642
lfox@google.com
 
###
 
Google is a registered trademark of Google Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.


