FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20050421161146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 21, 2005, Google Inc. is issuing a press release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Google is making reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the press release and the conference call. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  April 21, 2005  Google Inc. (Nasdaq: GOOG) today announced financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
 
"This was a very strong quarter for Google. We continue to execute well and we have been able to take full advantage of the growth in online advertising" said Eric Schmidt, Google chief executive officer. "In addition, we performed well across our operations with our engineering and product teams delivering dozens of new products and features for Google users around the world."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights
 
Revenues in the quarter totaled a record $1.256 billion, representing a 22% increase over the fourth quarter of 2004 and a 93% year-over-year increase. This revenue increase reflects strong traffic and monetization growth in the quarter as well as advertisers' growing recognition of the Internet as an effective advertising medium.
Revenues -
 
Google-owned sites generated $657 million or 52% of total revenues. This represents an increase of 116% over the first quarter of 2004.
Google-Sites Revenues
-
 
Revenues generated on Google's partner sites, through AdSense programs, contributed $584 million, or 47% of total revenues, a 75% increase over the Network revenues generated in the same quarter last year.
The Google Network
-
 
, the portion of revenues shared with Google's partners, increased to $462 million. This compares to total payments to partners of $271 million in the first quarter of 2004.
TAC  Traffic Acquisition Costs
 
Income from operations in the first quarter, on a GAAP basis, was $443 million or 35.2% of revenues, and included a non-cash charge of $49 million for stock-based compensation. This compares to income from operations of $155 million or 23.8% of revenues in the first quarter of 2004, when the stock-based compensation charge was $76 million. This improvement in operating margins was primarily due to decreases in both stock-based compensation expense and TAC as a percentage of revenues.
Income from Operations 
 
- Google recorded a provision for income taxes of $87 million in the first quarter of 2005, an effective tax rate of 19% as compared to a $92 million provision for income taxes and a 59% effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2004. The provision for income taxes in this year's first quarter was reduced by $49 million related to ISO disqualifying dispositions. The effective tax rate for the remainder of 2005 is expected to be less than 30%. However if future revenues recognized by Google's Irish subsidiary are not as proportionately great as expected, Google's effective tax rate will be higher than expected.
Income Taxes
- Net income on a GAAP basis increased to $369 million or 29.4% of revenues in the first quarter of 2005 as compared to $64 million or 9.8% of revenues in the first quarter of 2004. Earnings on a diluted per share basis were $1.29 in the first quarter of 2005 as compared to $0.24 in the first quarter of 2004.
Net Income
 
 Net cash provided by operating activities increased 155% to $530 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 from $208 million in the three months ended March 31, 2004. Free cash flow is an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities and is calculated as operating cash flows less capital expenditures. Capital expenditures were $142 million in the three months ended March 31, 2005 as compared to $86 million in the three months ended March 31, 2004. Free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2005 totaled approximately $387 million as compared to $122 million for the same period in 2004, an increase of 217%.
Cash Flow
 
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, the non-cash stock-based compensation charge and in-process R&D. It is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased to approximately $548 million in Q1 2005 (or 44% of revenues) from $255 million (or 39% of revenues) in Q1 2004.
Adjusted EBITDA 
 
The reconciliations of free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA to net cash provided by operating activities, the GAAP measure of liquidity, is set forth at the back of this release.
 
 As of March 31, 2005, Google had a cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance of $2.507 billion.
Cash
 
On a worldwide basis, Google employed 3,482 full time employees as of March 31, 2005, up from 3,021 as of December 31, 2004.
 
Webcast and conference call information
 
A live audio webcast of Google's first-quarter earnings release call will be available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. (PDT)/ 4:30 (EDT). This press release, the financial tables as well as other supplemental information including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, are also available at that site. A replay of the call will be available beginning at 7:30 PM EDT through midnight Monday, May 2, by calling (888) 203-1112 in the United States or (719) 457-0820 for calls from outside the United States. The required confirmation code for the replay is 1993546.
http://investor.google.com/news.html
 
Forward looking statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements relating to Google's market opportunity, future business prospects and anticipated effective tax rate. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results
to differ from the results predicted include, among others, our ability to compete with new or existing competitors, risks related to our ability to innovate and grow, risks related to our international operations, our ability to maintain and enhance our brand, and the fact that we may have exposure to greater than expected tax liabilities, as well as those included under the captions, "Factors That Could Affect Future Results" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 which is on file with the SEC and is available on our investor relations website at and on the SEC's website at . Additional information will also be set forth in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, which will be filed with the SEC in May 2005. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of April 21, 2005 and we undertake no duty to update this information.
investor.google.com
www.sec.gov
 
About non-GAAP financial measures.
 
To supplement Google's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Google uses the following measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC: free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA, net income before certain income tax items and net income per share before certain income tax items. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned "Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Results of Operations Measures to the Nearest Comparable GAAP Measures," and "Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Liquidity Measures to the Nearest Comparable GAAP Measures" set forth at the back of this release.
 
Google's management believes that net income and adjusted net income per share, before certain income tax items, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the company's core results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to those core results and are of a substantially non-recurring nature. Google's management believes that free cash flows and adjusted EBITDA provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity. Google believes that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Google's ongoing operations and liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Google's historical operating results and liquidity.
 
Google computes its non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. The accompanying tables have more details on the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to non-GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliations between these financial measures.
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Results of Operations Measures to the Nearest Comparable GAAP Measures
 
The following table presents certain non-GAAP results before certain tax items (in thousands except per share amounts, unaudited):
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Liquidity Measures to the Nearest Comparable GAAP Measures
 
1. Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in thousands, unaudited):
 
 
2. Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA(*) (in thousands, unaudited):
 


