FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20051129142720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Ann Mather was elected to the board of directors (the "Board") of Google Inc. (the "Company") effective November 22, 2005. Pursuant to a letter agreement between the Company and Ms. Mather dated November 8, 2005, the Company committed to grant Ms. Mather a non-qualified stock option to purchase 12,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock with an exercise price equal to the closing fair market value of the underlying stock on December 1, 2005. The shares underlying the option vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after Ms. Mather commenced service as a member of the Board and an additional 1/60
th
each month thereafter, subject to her continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date. Also pursuant to the letter agreement, the Company committed to grant Ms. Mather 4,700 Google Stock Units ("GSUs"), with each GSU entitling Ms. Mather to receive one share of the Company's Class A common stock as the GSU vests. The GSUs vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after Ms. Mather commenced service as a member of the Board and an additional 1/20
th
each quarter thereafter, subject to her continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date. The option and GSUs are subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Stock Plan and their respective grant agreements. In addition, the Company is required to reimburse Ms. Mather for all reasonable expenses in connection with her services to the Company.
 
A copy of the letter agreement between the Company and Ms. Mather dated November 8, 2005 is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.19.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective November 22, 2005, Ann Mather was elected to the Board. The size of the Board was increased to eleven in connection with the election. Ms. Mather was concurrently appointed to serve as Chairperson of the Board's Audit Committee.
 
A press release announcing the election was issued on November 29, 2005, a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.19
 
 
November 8, 2005
 
Dear Ms. Mather,
 
Google Inc. (the "Company") is pleased to offer you a position as a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") effective upon formal approval of the Board. What follows is some information on the benefits available to you as a director of the Company (a "Director").
 
As compensation for your services to the Company, you will be granted two initial equity grants. The first grant will be an option to purchase 12,000 shares of Google Class A common stock. This will be a non-qualified stock option with an exercise price equal to the closing fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. The shares underlying the option will vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after you commence service as a Director and an additional 1/60
th
each month thereafter, subject to your continued service as a Director on the applicable vesting date. The second grant will be in the form of 4,700 Google Stock Units (GSUs). Each GSU will entitle you to one share of Google Class A common stock when the GSU vests. Your GSUs will vest at the rate of 1/5
th
on the date one year after you commence service as a Director and an additional 1/20
th
each quarter thereafter, subject to your continued service as a Director on the applicable vesting date. Board grants take place on the first business day of the month following the date on which the Board approves the grant and you commence service on the Board. The option and GSUs shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Stock Plan and their respective grant agreements, all of which documents are incorporated herein by reference.
 
You shall also be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred by you in connection with your services to the Company. All expense reimbursements are in accordance with established Company policies.
 
Board meetings are generally held on site at the Company quarterly and we would hope that your schedule would permit you to attend all of the meetings. In addition, there may be telephonic calls to address special projects that arise from time to time. The Board has delegated certain duties to other committees on which you may be asked to serve.
 
Nothing in this offer or the stock option agreement should be construed to interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company and the Company's stockholders to remove any individual from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
 
This letter sets forth the terms of your service with the Company and supersedes any prior representations or agreements, whether written or oral. This letter may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement, signed by an officer of the Company and by you.
We hope that you find the foregoing terms acceptable. You may indicate your agreement with these terms and accept this offer by signing and dating both the enclosed duplicate and original letter and returning them to me.
 
Ann, I am looking forward to you joining the Company's Board of Directors. I believe you will make a significant contribution to the Company and will help us to navigate our way through the future direction of the Company.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  November 29, 2005  Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced it has appointed Ann Mather to its Board of Directors. As a corporate finance executive who has driven accounting and strategic business initiatives for some of the world's most recognized brand names for nearly 25 years, Mather will also serve as Chairperson for Google's Audit Committee. Mather's appointment was effective November 22, 2005.
 
"Ann Mather is an extraordinary leader in the financial community, and her experience abroad is a great enhancement to the Board's global perspective," said Eric Schmidt, chief executive officer of Google. "We look forward to engaging Ann's vast accounting expertise as Chair of our Audit Committee."
 
"I'm one of Google's biggest fans, and I believe whole-heartedly in its ability to help make the world a better place. I look forward to working with the esteemed Board to help guide Google's finance and accounting platform," said Mather.
 
Ms. Mather has been a director on the Board of the Central European Media Enterprises group since April 2004, and serves on its Audit and Compensation Committees. She served as a director for Shopping.com from May 2004 until it was acquired by Ebay in 2005. She was Chair of Shopping.com's Audit Committee, and was a member of their Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
From 1999 to 2004, Ms. Mather was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Pixar. At Pixar she was responsible for finance, administration, business affairs, investor relations and HR. She was Pixar's prime contact with Disney on distribution issues as part of the Disney/Pixar co-production agreement, served as the Company Secretary, and helped supervise construction of a new campus.
 
Prior to joining Pixar, Ms. Mather was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Village Roadshow Pictures, and held various executive positions at the Walt Disney Company in Los Angeles from 1993 to 1999, including Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration for its Buena Vista International Theatrical Division. From 1992 to 1993 she worked for Disney in Paris to help start the international theatrical distribution arm in ten European countries.
 
Ms. Mather held various executive positions in Europe before joining Disney, including Alico (a division of AIG), and Paramount Pictures. While at Paramount, from 1984 to 1988, she worked in London, Amsterdam and New York. Prior to working for Paramount, she was based in London, where she worked for KPMG from 1981 to 1984.
 
Ms. Mather holds an MA from Cambridge University in England.
 
About Google Inc.
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world
with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit .
www.google.com
 
 
Media Contacts:
 
Lynn Fox
Google Inc.
(650) 253-2642
lfox@google.com


