FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20060117150803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On January 16, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") with dMarc Broadcasting, Inc. (""), Enumclaw, Inc., and certain other parties. The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of Enumclaw, Inc. with and into dMarc, with dMarc continuing as the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary.
Merger Agreement
dMarc
 
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we will acquire all of the outstanding equity interests in dMarc, a privately held company, for total up-front consideration of $102 million in cash. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions described in the Merger Agreement, we will be obligated to make additional contingent cash payments from time to time if certain product integration, net revenue and advertising inventory targets are met over the next three years. The maximum amount of potential contingent consideration payable under the Merger Agreement is $1.136 billion over the next three years. Since these contingent payments are based on the achievement of performance targets, actual payments may be substantially lower. Substantially all of the payments pursuant to the Merger Agreement will be accounted for as part of the purchase price for the transaction.
 
A portion of the consideration will be placed in escrow to satisfy certain indemnification obligations of dMarc described in the Merger Agreement. We can also satisfy these indemnification obligations by offsetting losses we incur against contingent payments subject to certain limitations described in the Merger Agreement.
 
Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including (1) the expiration or termination of the applicable Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period, (2) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties and (3) the absence of any material adverse effect on dMarc.
 
We expect the transaction to close in the first calendar quarter of 2006.
 
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including any statement regarding the amount of potential contingent payments that will actually be made and our expectation that the closing of the transaction will occur in the first quarter of 2006. Actual results may differ materially from our expected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include the failure to (1) accurately estimate the amount of the contingent payments because of mistaken assumptions or predictions about the ability of dMarc's business to achieve the performance targets described in the Merger Agreement, (2) receive regulatory approval for the acquisition, (3) successfully integrate dMarc and its employees into our organization and achieve expected synergies, (4) compete successfully in this highly competitive and rapidly changing marketplace in which we have no significant previous experience and (5) retain key employees. These and other risks are detailed from time to time in our periodic reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 17, 2006, we issued a press release announcing the Merger Agreement. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this exhibit is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, but is instead "furnished" in accordance with that instruction.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
 
Not applicable.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
Not applicable.
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FINAL
 
Google to Acquire dMarc Broadcasting
 
Brings Radio Advertising to Google AdWords Advertisers
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. - January 17, 2006 - Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced it has agreed to acquire dMarc Broadcasting, Inc., a Newport Beach, Calif.-based digital solutions provider for the radio broadcast industry.
 
dMarc connects advertisers directly to radio stations through its automated advertising platform. The platform simplifies the sales process, scheduling, delivery and reporting of radio advertising, enabling advertisers to more efficiently purchase and track their campaigns. For broadcasters, dMarc's technology automatically schedules and places advertising, helping to increase revenue and decrease the costs associated with processing advertisements.
 
In the future, Google plans to integrate dMarc technology into the Google AdWords platform, creating a new radio ad distribution channel for Google advertisers.
 
"Google is committed to exploring new ways to extend targeted, measurable advertising to other forms of media," said Tim Armstrong, vice president of Advertising Sales, Google. "We anticipate that this acquisition will bring new ad dollars and accountability to radio by combining Google's expansive network of advertisers with dMarc's talented team and innovative radio advertising technology. We look forward to working together to continue to grow and improve the ecosystem of the radio industry."
 
"We are excited to be joining one of the most innovative companies in the world," said Chad Steelberg, CEO of dMarc Broadcasting, Inc. "We are bringing together complementary visions of simplicity, efficiency, and accountability to the radio advertising process."
 
dMarc customers will not experience any interruption in service. For more information on dMarc Broadcasting, please visit www.dmarc.net.
 
Transaction and Financial Information
 
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Google will acquire all of the outstanding equity interests in dMarc, a privately held company, for total up-front consideration of $102 million in cash. In addition, Google will be obligated to make additional contingent cash payments from time to time if certain product integration, net revenue and advertising inventory targets are met over the next three years. The maximum amount of potential contingent payments is $1.136 billion over the next three years. Since these contingent payments are based on the achievement of performance targets, actual payments may be substantially lower. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions. Google anticipates that the acquisition will close in the first quarter 2006. Substantially all of the payments will be accounted for as part of the purchase price for the transaction.
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding the actual amount of contingent payments that may be made pursuant to the transaction, Google's expectation that the acquisition of dMarc will bring new ad dollars and accountability to radio and improve Google's operating performance, Google's plans to integrate the dMarc technology into the Google AdWords platform following the consummation of the acquisition, and the expected timing for closing the acquisition by the end of the first quarter 2006. Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results and performance may differ materially. Factors
that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include the failure to (1) accurately estimate the amount of the contingent payments because of mistaken assumptions or predictions about the ability of dMarc's business to achieve the performance targets described in the Merger Agreement, (2) receive regulatory approval for the acquisition, (3) successfully integrate dMarc and its employees into our organization and achieve expected synergies, (4) compete successfully in this highly competitive and rapidly changing marketplace in which we have no significant previous experience and (5) retain key employees. These and other risks are detailed from time to time in our periodic reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005.
 
About Google Inc.
 
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit www.google.com.
 
###
 
 
Media Contacts:
 
Michael Mayzel
mmayzel@google.com
(650) 253-4565
 
Barry Schnitt
barry@google.com
(650) 253-4194


