FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20060301063025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On the morning of February 28, 2006, George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer of Google Inc., participated in the Merrill Lynch Internet, Advertising, Information, & Education conference. At this conference, Mr. Reyes made remarks regarding, among other things, revenue growth trends and expected sources of revenue growth.
We would like to clarify and provide further information on these statements. As we have stated before, monetization improvements will continue to be a key factor driving future revenue growth. We still see significant opportunities to improve monetization and intend to continue to focus our efforts in this area.
Moreover, as we have stated in our SEC filings, our revenue growth rate has generally declined over time and we expect that it will continue to do so as a result of the difficulty of maintaining growth rates on a percentage basis as our revenues increase to higher levels.
Safe Harbor Statement
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding future revenue growth and opportunities to improve monetization. Actual results may differ materially from our expected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include competition, our ability to innovate, the growth of the market for internet advertising, our ability to penetrate foreign markets and general economic conditions. More information about potential risk factors is included in our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and from time to time in other reports that we file with the SEC.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


