FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20061213061834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On December 12, 2006, Google Inc. issued a press release announcing a new program that will enable employees to sell vested stock options. Under the new Transferable Stock Option (TSO) program, Google employees will be able to sell their vested stock options to participating financial institutions in an online auction as an alternative to the traditional method of exercising options and selling shares. The press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K are a posting to the Google Blog about the TSO program and other documents linked to from the blog posting.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Google Inc. to Launch Transferable Stock Option Program for its Employees
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., December 12, 2006 - Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) announced today a program that will enable employees to sell vested stock options in an online auction. Under the Transferable Stock Option (TSO) program, employees will still be able to exercise their options, but will also be able to sell their options to financial institutions as an alternative.
This program represents an innovative way to compensate employees and will increase the efficiency of Google's equity compensation by increasing the per-option value of employee stock options. Google will amend the terms of eligible employee stock options to make vested options transferable. The auction will be managed by Morgan Stanley. Smith Barney will serve as the employee stock option administrator. Google is working with multiple financial institutions to participate as bidders in the auction.
The ability to sell options is not a novel concept - today people can buy and sell options to purchase Google stock and the stock of many other companies on the public markets. What is novel is that Google is extending this ability to trade options to employee stock options. If an employee chooses to sell options in the TSO program, he or she will use an internal online tool built by Morgan Stanley to sell them to the highest-bidding financial institution. The financial institutions buying the options will then likely hold them until maturity and then settle with Google.
Google's employee stock options typically have a ten-year term from the grant date. Under the TSO program, Google's employee stock options, upon transfer, will have a lifespan of the lesser of two years or up to the remaining term under the original grant.
Google expects this program will go into effect in the second quarter of 2007. Only stock options issued since Google's initial public offering will be eligible for this program, and Google's Executive Management Group may not participate in the program.
This program will not result in a change to the accounting method used for employee stock options. However, in the near term Google expects that the amount it recognizes as stock-based compensation will be greater than it would otherwise have been after the program goes into effect.
Google has discussed the TSO program with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Google will ensure the program complies with applicable securities laws.
For more information about this new program, please visit the Google Blog at http://googleblog.blogspot.com/.
About Google:
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit
www.google.com.
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that
 
registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
www.sec.gov
. Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to investors@google.com.
Contacts:
Media
Steve Langdon
650.253.4950
slangdon@google.com
Investors
Maria Shim
650.253.7663
marias@google.com

Exhibit 99.2.1
Google Blog Post
http://googleblog.blogspot.com
About Transferable Stock Options
Posted by Allan Brown, Director, Recognition & HR Systems
We work hard to attract and retain the world's best talent in a number of ways, and a part of that is offering competitive compensation packages. We offer standard things such as competitive salary, cash incentives, restricted stock units and stock options. But we also aim to be innovative. So today we're announcing a new compensation program called Transferable Stock Options (TSOs).
As with most employee stock option programs, Google's program to date has allowed employees to do two things with their options. Upon vesting they can (1) hold them or (2) exercise them and then hold or sell the stock. With the new TSO program, employees will have an additional alternative: they can transfer (sell) their options to a financial institution through a competitive bidding process. The ability to sell options is not a novel concept  today people can buy and sell options to purchase GOOG stock and the stock of many other companies on the public markets. What is novel is that we are extending this ability to trade options to employee stock options.
Typically, employees get value from stock options by exercising them after vesting, and then selling the stock they get from the exercise at a higher price, provided the company's stock price has appreciated since the time of grant. With the TSO program, employees will also be able to sell vested options to the highest-bidding financial institution, which may be willing to pay a premium above the difference between the exercise price and the market price for Google stock (even when the exercise price is higher than the market price). The premium paid is for the time value of the options. More on that and how institutions would do this, and why, is .
here
1
Employees will still have the choice of simply exercising and then holding or selling the stock too. But if they choose to sell the options, they can use a simple online tool that will show them the best price a participating financial institution is willing to pay for their vested options in real time. With that tool, they'll be able to sell their vested options to the highest bidder.
In addition to increasing the value of every option employees receive, the TSO program makes the value of their options much more tangible. In the past, employees typically valued Google stock options based simply on the difference between their option exercise price and the current market stock price (called the intrinsic value). Since Google grants options with exercise prices that are at, or above, the market price of Google stock, many employees do not value options on the day they are granted. By showing employees what financial institutions are willing to pay for their options, it is made clear that the value of their options is greater than just the intrinsic value.
 
 
 
We aren't offering this program for everyone or for all stock options. Google's (EMG) may not participate, and only employee stock options granted after our IPO are eligible. We should also note that we've discussed this program with the SEC and we'll ensure it complies with applicable U.S. securities laws.
Executive Management Group
We've chosen Morgan Stanley to manage the auction of these TSOs between our employees and the multiple bidders, and we are working with multiple financial institutions to participate as bidders in the auction. We expect to have this program up and running in the second quarter of 2007.
If you're wondering how this would work for employees, .
here is an example scenario
2
There's more about the .
related accounting here
3
And for answers to other questions, we've put together
an extensive Q and A.
4
(You'll notice some legal language below, and at the bottom of all the related information we link to. We're including that because we will file a registration statement with the SEC as a requirement of offering this program, and we want to help you find all of the information related to this registration statement.)
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to .
investors@google.com
 

Exhibit 99.2.2
The Market for TSOs
Employee stock options are typically not transferable, meaning that employees are limited to either holding or exercising (paying the strike price in exchange for shares) their options. But with the new Google TSO program, eligible Google employee stock options will be transferable to a participating financial institution.
Here's how it will work. Employees will use a company web tool to see the highest price offered by the participating financial institutions for their vested options. The bid price that institutions offer will depend on the strike price, current Google stock price, the volatility of Google stock, current interest rates, the life of the option and market conditions.
Upon transfer, the term of the option will generally be shortened to two years except in cases when the option life is less than two years (in which case the transferable life would be less than two years). Other terms of the option will also be adjusted to conform with market-standard provisions for traded options. For example, the options will no longer automatically terminate three months after the selling employee leaves Google.
Also, once the highest bidder receives the options, no transfers of the options to the public are permitted by the winning bidder. Competing bids will be set by the bidders, but we expect that they will be close to the public market trading prices of listed stock options with similar maturities.
Why would financial institutions bid for options given that they are not permitted to sell the options to the public? The answer is hedging. Buying these converted employee stock options is similar to buying a call option - sometimes referred to simply as a call.' The owner of a call is positively exposed to the direction of the stock price - meaning that he or she makes money if the stock price goes up and loses money if the stock price goes down. The winning bidder in the TSO auction will likely hedge their position in the Google options by short selling Google shares, which is a typical way to hedge a position in an option. By short selling, the winning bidder offsets the exposure it has in the call. The winning bidder will adjust this short position over the life of the option based on fluctuations in Google's stock price. Through this hedging process, the winning bidder expects to make a profit.
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 1
 
Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to .
investors@google.com
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 2

Exhibit 99.2.3
Google Employees Tom and Sally
Employee stock options give the employee the right to buy a certain number of shares of company stock at a set price, often called the strike price. For example, an employee might be given 100 options with a strike price of one dollar per share, vesting over four years. That grant entitles the employee to exercise vested options to buy company stock at that price, regardless of what the stock is trading at in the open market. Typically, stock options have value when the price of the stock in the open market has become greater than the strike price, meaning that when the options vest, the employee can buy the stock at the strike price and then sell the stock at the higher open market price. Employees may either exercise the options (buy stock at the strike price) and hold that stock, exercise the option and then sell that stock, or simply hold the vested option for as long as they like (for as long as the life of the option, the length of which is set when the options are granted).
Here's a hypothetical example of how the Google Transferable Stock Option (TSO) program would affect a couple of Google employees we'll call Tom and Sally.
Let's assume
 
 
 
Sally debates whether to exercise her options in the traditional manner or take advantage of the added choice in the new TSO program that allows her to sell the options to a financial institution. Using a special employee website for the TSO program, she sees the highest bid from the participating financial institutions, which is $150 per option. She compares this to what she would receive if she exercised her options and sold the underlying shares the traditional way, which is $100 per option (calculated by taking the current $500 market price and subtracting the $400 strike price). Since she is better off under the TSO program, she sells all 100 options under the TSO program and makes $15,000 (before taxes).
Tom didn't compare the gains he could make under the new program with what he could make exercising and selling his options in the traditional manner. So, he decides to exercise his options and sell the stock. In doing so, he earns $100 per share, or $10,000 total (before taxes), which is $5,000 less than Sally.
This example shows how the TSO program can provide an opportunity to earn a premium for employee stock options.
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 1
 
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to .
investors@google.com
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p.2

Exhibit 99.2.4
Accounting for TSOs
Google will account for employee stock options under this program the same way we account for options presently. That is, we will determine their fair values on the dates of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) pricing model and then recognize those amounts as stock based compensation as the options vest. However, as discussed below, the of stock-based compensation we expect to recognize for each option outstanding will be under the new program than it would have been otherwise.
amount
greater
All existing stock options granted after our initial public offering to employees other than our Executive Management Group (EMG) will be modified to permit their sale under this program. As a result of this modification, we must take a stock-based compensation charge equal to the difference between the value of the modified stock options and their value immediately prior to modification. That charge will be taken on the date we initiate the program  expected to be in the second quarter of 2007  for all vested options and over the remaining vesting periods for all unvested options. We intend to disclose our estimates of these amounts in the first quarter of 2007.
The fair value of each stock option we grant after we go effective with this program will be greater than it would have been under the existing program. This greater fair value is a function of a longer expected life for options given that, upon transfer, they will generally have a two year remaining (contractual) life whereas under the existing program they expire once they are exercised. So, if the period from the date of grant to the date of sale under the new program is about the same as our current estimate of nearly four years from the date of grant to the date of exercise under the existing program, then options under the new program will have a nearly six year expected life (the nearly four years until the date of sale plus the two year remaining contractual life once the options are sold). Accordingly, options under the new program will have a longer expected life, and, therefore, a greater fair value which will result in more stock-based compensation per option for accounting purposes.
It is important to note that as part of the TSO program we decided to truncate the contractual life of the options to a maximum of two years from date of sale. If the contractual life were not truncated, the value of the options would be much greater on the dates of grant and vest than they would be otherwise.
An inherent challenge with accounting for traditional employee stock option plans is that the fair value on the date of grant is determined using pricing models (such as BSM) that assume the options are transferable. However, because traditional employee stock options are not transferable, there is a disconnect between their value as determined using BSM - which, under the new accounting rules, we recognize as stock-based compensation as the options vest - and the value employees ascribe to their options on the date of grant. The TSO program diminishes this disconnect.
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 1
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to .
investors@google.com
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 2

Exhibit 99.2.5
GOOGLE TRANSFERABLE STOCK OPTIONS PROGRAM
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING GOOGLE'S PROPOSED TRANSFERABLE STOCK OPTION PROGRAM. THIS PROGRAM IS NOT SCHEDULED TO LAUNCH UNTIL APRIL 2007. THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ARE BASED ON OUR CURRENT PLANNED STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAM, WHICH MAY CHANGE. GOOGLE MAY MODIFY THIS PROGRAM AND, IF IT LAUNCHES, TERMINATE THIS PROGRAM AT ANY TIME IN ITS SOLE DISCRETION.
GENERAL PROGRAM QUESTIONS
What are Google Transferable Stock Options ("TSOs")?
Google TSOs are Google employee nonqualified stock options that, once vested, may be transferred ("sold") to financial institutions through an online auction. Under our current stock option program, Google employees have a choice of either (1) exercising their vested stock options and then selling or holding the stock, or (2) continuing to hold the options to purchase shares at a later date. The TSO program offers a third alternative: selling vested stock options to financial institutions.
How do these new stock options compare to regular stock options?
Traditional stock options are not transferable (except in limited circumstances at death)  they are only exercisable. TSOs can either be exercised like traditional options, or they can be transferred (sold). TSOs will be governed by the terms of Google's 2004 Stock Plan and the relevant option agreements, which will be amended as described below.
Why did Google create this program?
We want to permit Google employees to capture the "time value" of their options. Because the current option program does not allow the sale of employee stock options, employees are able to realize value from the options only by exercising them and then selling the stock at a price higher than the exercise price. With this program, employees will be able to realize not only the intrinsic value (the difference between grant price and market price for Google stock), but also the time value of their options. Financial institutions such as banks may be willing to pay a premium above the intrinsic value for many options because of the time value.
What is time value?
Time value is the value of the right to continue holding an option for potentially greater gains at a later date.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 1
Who can participate in this program?
Only active Google employees who are not part of the Executive Management Group (EMG) can participate in this program.
Which options are eligible?
Only vested nonqualified stock options granted since Google went public (post-IPO) are eligible for this program.
How many post-IPO options are still outstanding?
As can be derived from Google's financial statements, as of September 30, 2006 there were approximately 6.6 million vested and unvested options outstanding that were granted since Google's IPO.
Why did you exclude EMG?
We believe that this position reflects the interests of our shareholders at this point. We feel that our current compensatory programs provide adequate incentives for our Executive Management Group.
Why aren't options granted before Google went public (pre-IPO) eligible?
We believe it is fair to exclude options granted before Google went public from eligibility since the purpose of the TSO program is not to create value for options that are already significantly in the money. Realistically, even if we allowed pre-IPO options in the TSO program, bidders would be willing to pay little, if any, premium beyond the existing intrinsic value for the rights to those options. For that matter, there are many post-IPO options for which investors may pay little, if any, premium.
Can employees participate in the program after their employment with Google is terminated?
Once employment is terminated, an employee will no longer be eligible to participate in the TSO program, even if their options are still exercisable under the traditional program.
Are employees required to participate in the program?
Participation in the TSO program is completely voluntary and employees may decide to participate or not to participate at any time.
Can employees sell some of their options and exercise others?
Employees are free to exercise their options or sell the options (or not) in any mix they choose.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 2
Will employees get a better price if they sell options through Google's TSO program than if they exercised and immediately sold their options?
Generally yes. The TSO auction system allows a sale to occur under the TSO program only if the winning bidder offers a price equal to or greater than the intrinsic "in-the-money" value. Although there is no guarantee that the bidding financial institutions will pay a premium for an in-the-money option, historical market data suggests that they typically do. However, this will not be true in all cases in the TSO program. For example, for options that are very much in or out of the money (i.e., where the market price of Google common stock is much greater or much less than the grant price of the option), the time value could be so low as to be outweighed by the transaction costs of the TSO program. In addition, options with a remaining term of less than six months cannot be sold in the TSO program because, upon transfer, the remaining life is rounded down to zero.
Can you give me an example of what employee stock options would be worth under this program?
To get an idea of what bidders might offer Google employees for options with two-year lives at given strike prices, you can refer to what the market is paying for publicly traded 2-year "call options" .
today
1
For example, as of the close of trading on December 11
th
, 2006, two-year public market options with a "strike price" (also called "grant price") of $500 were trading at approximately $105 each. Since Google's stock price closed at approximately $484 on that day, these options were "underwater" - meaning they had no intrinsic value. In other words, the entire $105 was attributed to the time value of the options. On the same date, two-year public market options with a strike price of $300 were trading at approximately $225 each. This means that the market was willing to pay not only the $184 for the value realizable by exercising and selling today, but also a $41 premium for the time value.
We caution employees not to place undue reliance on the value of publicly-traded options when attempting to determine the value of their options under the TSO program. Although Google's TSO program is intended to mirror the public market, it will not be as efficient because there will be fewer market participants and slightly higher transaction costs. In addition, the market price for options is highly volatile and may fluctuate drastically. We make no representations as to what "fair value" should be. Also, Google employees should be aware that as options become more in or out of the money (i.e., as
 
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 3
the market price of Google common stock gets further from the grant price of the option), the time value of the option decreases and therefore the TSO program becomes less valuable.
Will this program be available in all countries?
We intend to make this program available to employees in all countries where Google grants options except in places where, due to local legal and/or tax implications, it would not benefit employees or the program would be impractical. While we do believe that we will be able to offer the TSO program in most countries where we grant options, we are still working through local legal and regulatory requirements in each country so that we can implement this program in as many places as possible. We will provide employees in each country with updated specifics between now and April.
When can employees start using this program?
We plan to launch the TSO program when the Q2 trading window opens in April 2007. Google employees will be able to log in to create and view their TSO account through an online system that Morgan Stanley has created for Google shortly before the program launches.
Will there be periods when Google employees cannot sell their options in the TSO program?
Yes. The TSO program will be active during regular NASDAQ trading hours when Google's trading window is open. When Google has material, non-public information, we will shut down the TSO program until the information is no longer material or the second business day after the information has been made public. Google employees will not be given advance notice of these shutdowns. When the TSO program is not active, Google employees may not sell their options under the TSO program, even under a 10b5-1 plan. See also "Does the TSO program affect an employee's ability to exercise options and sell the underlying shares in the traditional way?" below.
What is material, non-public information?
Information is material if a reasonable investor would consider it important in making a decision to buy, sell or hold Google securities, such a large acquisition or commercial deal. Information is nonpublic until it has been widely disseminated to the public market and the public has had a chance to absorb and evaluate it. Google employees may refer to Google's Policy Against Insider Trading for more information on what constitutes material, non-public information.
Why will the TSO program be shut down when Google is in possession of material, non-public information?
The registration statement Google is filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to permit the TSO program to operate may not be used when Google is in possession of material, non-public information. Therefore, the TSO program must be suspended when Google is in possession of material, non-public information. In practice, this means that Google employees will not be able to sell options using the TSO program in these periods.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 4
Does the TSO program affect an employee's ability to exercise options and sell the underlying shares in the traditional way?
No, with one exception. As discussed above, Google will shut down the TSO program when Google is in possession of material, non-public information. During such time periods, Google will also black out Google employees from selling shares issued upon the exercise of options in the traditional way. Google will impose this restriction to help ensure that sales of Google stock by Google employees do not violate insider-trading laws and Google's Policy Against Insider Trading. If Google did not impose this restriction, there is a risk that a Google employee could be deemed to be selling Google stock during a period when the Google employee knew that the TSO program is shut down, which could be deemed material, non-public information. This restriction does not apply to sales of shares under a 10b5-1 plan (but it does apply to sales of TSOs under a 10b5-1 plan).
Who will buy the options?
Pre-qualified institutional investors will be bidding on all options that Google employees put up for auction.
Can employees sell options outside of Google's TSO auction process?
No, employees may not sell options outside of the TSO program.
What are the tax consequences when employees sell TSOs?
In the US, when employees sell TSOs, the amount they receive will be treated as compensation income to them in the year that they sell the TSOs. This income is of the same character as the income they would have received if they had exercised their options and immediately sold the underlying shares rather than sold their options through this new program. Google will withhold the same type of taxes on the compensation income they earn from the sale of TSOs as it would have if they had exercised their options and immediately sold the underlying shares rather than sold their options. The discussion above does not constitute tax advice, nor does it address any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state, local or foreign jurisdiction. Also, tax laws may change, possibly retroactively, so you should consult your tax advisor.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 5
Is the TSO program affected by section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code?
We don't think so, but the regulations are not finalized yet. (For those of you who are not familiar with section 409A, it generally subjects certain discounted options to tax at the time of vesting, regardless of whether they are exercised or sold. Normal income taxes, an additional 20% penalty tax and other taxes can apply.) With respect to options that Google grants after the TSO program begins, there will be no section 409A tax so long as we grant the options at fair market value, which is what we do. With respect to options already outstanding at the time the TSO program begins, the existing IRS guidance under section 409A specifically permits the changes we will make to the options in connection with the TSO program without the options being deemed regrants for tax purposes, and thus the options would not be deemed discounted options subject to section 409A. More specifically, the proposed section 409A regulations permit changes to allow for transferability of certain options. Although the IRS is not yet issuing rulings under section 409A, we have been careful in structuring the TSO program to ensure that its adoption and operation will not create any section 409A issues for Google employees. The final version of the TSO program will be designed in a way so as to ensure compliance with the final regulations under section 409A (which will not be released until early 2006).
What are the tax consequences for employees who work for a Google entity outside the U.S.?
Since TSOs are a new concept in every country, the tax implications associated with this new program are not entirely certain. We are working with outside tax counsel to identify the tax implications in every country that Google currently issues options; and in the countries where we do offer TSOs, we generally believe that the tax consequences will be similar to the tax consequences of exercising ordinary options. However, this is subject to additional regulatory review. For Google employees subject to US taxes outside of the US, Google will provide additional tax information at a later time.
Which financial institutions are participating in this program?
Morgan Stanley will serve as Google's TSO auction manager and will settle all transactions between Google employees and bidders. Smith Barney will serve as the employee stock option administrator. Google is working with multiple financial institutions to participate as bidders in the auctions.
Do I have to open a Morgan Stanley or other brokerage account?
No, you will create an online TSO account, but will not be required to open a Morgan Stanley or other brokerage account.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 6
What if others want to participate? Are there any financial institutions that are not eligible to be a part of the auction?
Google anticipates allowing additional financial institutions to participate in the TSO program. All participants must be able to provide continuous, automated bids for all Google options in the TSO program, and must update their systems to interface with the TSO system. Admission will be at Google's sole discretion.
How are bid prices for options determined?
All participating bidders will be required to bid on all of the options offered for sale as a condition of participation in Google's TSO program so that all Google employees get the benefit of competitive pricing on their options, even if they are selling only one option. Institutional investors use their own proprietary option pricing models to determine the fair value of each option based on the option's strike price, term (which will be up to two years under Google's TSO program; all options with a duration of greater than two years will be shortened to two years), market interest rates, stock price volatility, and market conditions at the moment the bid is made. We expect that bid prices will change throughout the trading day just like bid prices for shares of stock on the NASDAQ change throughout the day to reflect changing valuation assumptions.
Can an employee specify in advance the price at which they want to sell their options?
Yes. If an employee wants to sell his/her options at a certain price, the employee can submit a limit order. The option will be sold at a minimum of that price as long as one of the bidders is willing to pay at least that much for the option(s). Limits can be set to expire at the end of the trading day or at the end of a trading window. A market or limit order can be made at any time during an open trading window, although the trade cannot be effected unless the auction is open. There is no guarantee that limit orders will be filled, and, as discussed above, the TSO program may shut down from time to time without prior notice.
Can employees sell vested, "underwater" stock options in this program?
Yes, financial institutions do place value on "underwater" stock options (i.e., those with strike prices above the current market price of the stock) and we expect them to bid on underwater options. However, if an option is significantly underwater and/or the option has only a limited remaining life (e.g., if the option is sold nine years and five months after grant), the bid price may be very low or even zero.
How does the TSO program affect Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans?
A 10b5-1 plan may be used to sell options through the TSO program. Google is modifying its form 10b5-1 plan to accommodate TSO sales, and will make this revised form available before the trading window opens on February 5, 2007. Here are important points regarding 10b5-1 plans and the TSO program:
 
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 7
 
What is the benefit of a Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan if Google will shut down the TSO program (including trading under a 10b5-1 plan) when Google in possession of material, non-public information?
There are a couple reasons why a Google Employee may still wish to enter into a 10b5-1 Plan.
First, a 10b5-1 plan will still permit you to exercise and sell your options the traditional way regardless of whether we are in our ordinary quarterly blackout periods or in a special blackout period during which the TSO Program has been suspended. So
 
 
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 8
Second, as discussed above, Google will shut down the TSO program when Google is in possession of material, non-public information. However. determining whether an item is material is a difficult, fact intensive, subjective analysis that can be second-guessed in hindsight. So, Google may be in possession of information that it deems not to be material and will continue to let the TSO program operate, even though another person might determine the information is material, especially if applying hindsight. (That's why our insider trading policy says that Google employees cannot rely on Google's determination of whether an item is material when deciding to buy or sell any Google security; the ultimate decision of whether to do so rests with each Google employee.) For this reason, a 10b5-1 plan (even if it just contemplates sales under the TSO Program when the Program is active) could be helpful to a Google employee in rebutting a claim that he or she fraudulently sold his options under the TSO Program while in possession of material non-public information.
Please keep in mind that the decision as to whether to adopt a 10b5-1 plan (or not) is a complicated one, and depends on the each individual's particular circumstances, and also on any requirements imposed by each individual's plan broker. Google cannot give any Google employee advice on whether to enter into, amend or terminate a 10b5-1 plan. We encourage you to consult your personal advisors and broker regarding the TSO program and 10b5-1 plans.
ACCOUNTING, INVESTOR & OTHER FINANCE QUESTIONS
Do the new stock options have any changes in their terms?
When the options are sold to a bidder under the TSO program, three changes occur:
1. The remaining life is shortened to two years unless the remaining life is less than two years. If the remaining life is less than two years, then the transferable life is further reduced from two years in six-month increments (e.g., 18 months, 12 months, six months) until the remaining transferable life is zero. For example, an option with a remaining life of 23 months will, upon sale in the TSO program, have an 18-month life.
2. The forfeiture provisions related to the employee's employment with Google are removed.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 9
3. We anticipate the anti-dilution provisions will be changed to conform to market-standard provisions.
Why did you reduce the length of the option life upon transfer?
We shortened the term to adjust the time value of the transferred options so that they are, in our estimation, more closely aligned with our compensatory objectives when the option was originally granted. Because the value of the option is in part determined by its term, a shorter option term would decrease the time value that can be realized through the TSO program.
It was not Google's intent to eliminate the benefits of employees holding options altogether. Our intent was to give employee options more tangible value. The TSO program is available to employees who are willing to forgo some of the potential future value in order to get some value today.
How does the TSO program affect Google's accounting?
The TSO program does not change the way we will account for options, but it does increase the cost per option that we will recognize for accounting purposes because the fair value per option on the date of grant will be greater because the life of the option will be longer. The longer expected life results from the fact that upon transfer, the options are modified to have a two-year remaining life (generally) from the date of sale, whereas under the non-transferable option program options expire once they are exercised. Because we expect that options will be outstanding longer, they will have a greater fair value on the date of grant which will result in more stock-based compensation for accounting purposes.
expected
We intend to modify all existing stock options granted to employees other than EMG after our IPO to permit their sale under the TSO program. As a result of this modification, we will take a stock-based compensation charge equal to the difference between the value of the modified stock options and their value immediately prior to modification. That charge will be taken on the date we initiate the program  expected to be in the second quarter of 2007  for all vested options and over the remaining vesting periods for all unvested options. We plan to disclose the expected amount of this charge in the first quarter of 2007.
Is this program related to new accounting rules for stock options?
No, this program is not driven by accounting implications. Google is doing this to make equity compensation more efficient and understandable to employees. We expect our compensation costs per option to increase under this program to reflect the increase in expected life of each eligible option.
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 10
Will this affect earnings?
As discussed above, we will recognize more stock-based compensation per option than we would have otherwise for the foreseeable future after the program goes into effect.
What is the impact on shareholders?
The TSO program increases the efficiency of our equity usage. Under the TSO program, we expect that every option that is granted will be more highly valued by employees, while at the same time the TSO program will retain the advantage of leverage that stock options offer over other forms of equity compensation. We also believe this program enhances our ability to compete effectively for the best talent in the marketplace and therefore sustain our competitive advantage.
Have you discussed this program with the SEC?
We have discussed the TSO program with the SEC, and Google will ensure the program complies with applicable securities laws.
What will the financial institutions do with the options they purchase in the TSO program?
The financial institutions will not be allowed to further transfer the options they purchase in the TSO program to the public. We believe that the financial institutions will enter into hedging transactions with respect to the options they purchase in the TSO program. Specifically, the winning bidder in the TSO auction will likely hedge their position in the Google options by short selling Google shares, which is a typical way to hedge a position in an option. By short selling, the winning bidder offsets the exposure it has in the purchased option. The winning bidder will adjust this short position over the life of the option based on fluctuations in Google's stock price. Through this hedging process, the winning bidder expects to make a profit.
Will Google file a registration statement with the SEC in connection with the TSO program?
Yes. This registration statement will cover, among other things, the expected short-selling activities of the participating financial institutions after they have purchased TSOs. (See "What will the financial institutions do with the options they purchase in the TSO program?" above.) Google will not be a party to this short-selling activity.
What advantage do these options have over restricted stock grants?
Transferable stock options share some of the benefits of restricted stock by having immediate value at grant, but in addition have more upside potential since we typically grant options in higher amounts than we grant restricted stock. In addition, based on current tax treatment in the U.S. and most other countries where Google grants options, options generally offer better tax planning flexibility to the option holder. While taxes on
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 11
GSUs are generally due at vesting, taxes on option proceeds are not generally due until the holder chooses to exercise/sell the options and claim the gain as income or capital gain, depending on the holding period after exercise.
OTHER QUESTIONS
Has anyone done this before?
No, the TSO program is the first of its kind.
Isn't this what Microsoft and Comcast did? How is this program different?
No, there are many differences between what Google is doing and what Microsoft and Comcast did. For example, Microsoft and Comcast were one-time transactions to a single bidder. In contrast, the TSO program is ongoing, and options will be sold competitively through an auction system involving multiple bidders. This program is the first of its kind.
How is this different than what Cisco tried to do?
This program is very different. Cisco proposed creating a security in an attempt to measure the market value of options issued to employees for accounting purposes. The employee options themselves were unchanged and remained non-transferable. The TSO program makes options themselves transferable for the benefit of employees.
Why did you choose Morgan Stanley?
We chose Morgan Stanley based on their industry credentials, technology capabilities, and experience in building and operating Google's auction IPO system.
Whom do I contact if I have more questions?
Please send inquiries to [omitted from external version].
Google may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Google has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Google and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Google will arrange to send you the prospectus after filing if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-468-4664 or sending an e-mail to .
investors@google.com
 
Google Inc.
December 12, 2006
p. 12


