FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20070328143816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Bonus Plan
On March 22, 2007, the Board of Directors of Google Inc. (the "Board") approved an Executive Bonus Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2007, subject to stockholder approval at Google's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Plan is a variable cash incentive program designed to motivate participants to perform to the best of their abilities and achieve Google's financial and other performance objectives. In addition, the Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that qualify as performance-based compensation under section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") selects the employees of Google who will be eligible to earn awards under the Plan. The actual number of employees who will be eligible to receive an award during any particular year cannot be determined in advance because the Committee has discretion to select the participants.
Under the Plan, participants will be eligible to receive an award only if and to the extent performance goals predetermined by the Committee are achieved. At the beginning of each performance period, which generally will last from one to three fiscal years, the Committee will assign each participant a maximum award and performance goal or goals that must be achieved before bonus amounts will actually be paid to the participant. The participant's maximum award typically will be expressed as a multiple of his or her base salary earned during the applicable performance period.
The performance goals will require the achievement of objectives for one or more of (a) cash position, (b) controllable profits, (c) customer satisfaction MBOs, (d) earnings per chare, (e) EBITDA, (f) free cash flow, (g) net income, (h) new orders, (i) operating cash flow, (j) operating income, (k) return on assets, (l) return on equity, (m) return on sales, (n) revenue, and (o) total shareholder return. Each of these measures is defined in the Plan. Performance goals may differ from participant to participant, from performance period to performance period and from award to award.
The Committee administers the Plan. Members of the Committee must qualify as "outside directors" under Section 162(m). Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee has all discretion and authority necessary or appropriate to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. In no event may any participant's award for any performance period exceed $6 million. The Committee or the Board generally may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason.
Fiscal Year 2007 Executive Bonus Awards
For fiscal year 2007, the Committee determined that all of Google's executive officers, other than Eric Schmidt, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, would be participants in the Plan. The Committee set the maximum amount payable to any one executive in the fiscal year 2007 at $4.5 million. The actual bonus paid to individual executives will be based on a formula tied to Google's non-GAAP operating income. The Committee retains discretion to reduce or eliminate (but not increase) the bonus that would otherwise be payable.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.23 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.23
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 . The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2007, subject to ratification by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Shares that are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company.
Effective Date
1.2 . The Plan is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating Participants (1) to perform to the best of their abilities, and (2) to achieve the Company's objectives. The Plan's goals are to be achieved by providing Participants with the opportunity to earn incentive awards for the achievement of goals relating to the performance of the Company. The Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that qualify as performance-based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code.
Purpose of the Plan
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
2.1 "" means as to any Performance Period, the actual award (if any) payable to a Participant for the Performance Period. Each Actual Award is determined by the Payout Formula for the Performance Period, subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.6 to eliminate or reduce the award otherwise determined by the Payout Formula.
Actual Award
2.2 "" means any corporation or other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) controlled by the Company.
Affiliate
2.3 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Participant's annualized salary rate on the last day of the Performance Period. Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to any applicable Company-sponsored plans and Affiliate-sponsored plans.
Base Salary
2.4 "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
2.5 "" means the Company's level of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Position
2.6 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any
Code
valid regulation promulgated thereunder, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
2.7 "" means the committee appointed by the Board (pursuant to Section 5.1) to administer the Plan.
Committee
2.8 "" means Google Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
2.9 "" means as to any Performance Period, a business unit's Revenue minus one or more of the following to the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee prior to the Determination Date: (a) cost of sales, (b) research, development, and engineering expense, (c) marketing and sales expense, (d) general and administrative expense, (e) extended receivables expense, and (f) shipping requirement deviation expense.
Controllable Profits
2.10 "" means as to any Participant for any Performance Period, the objective and measurable individual goals set by a "management by objectives" process and approved by the Committee, which goals relate to the satisfaction of external or internal customer requirements.
Customer Satisfaction MBOs
2.11 "" means the latest possible date that will not jeopardize a Target Award or Actual Award's qualification as performance-based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code.
Determination Date
2.12 "" means total and permanent disability as defined in section 22(e)(3) of the Code, provided that the Committee in its discretion may determine whether a permanent and total disability exists in accordance with uniform and non-discriminatory standards adopted by the Company from time to time.
Disability
2.13 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's or a business unit's Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Earnings Per Share
2.14 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's or a business unit's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
EBITDA
2.15 "" means any employee of the Company or of an Affiliate, whether such employee is so employed at the time the Plan is adopted or becomes so employed subsequent to the adoption of the Plan.
Employee
2.16 "" means the fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
 
2.17 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's or a business unit's operating cash flows less capital expenditures; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Free Cash Flow
2.18 "" means as to any Participant for any Performance Period, $6 million.
Maximum Award
2.19 "" means as to any Performance Period, the income after taxes of the Company for the Performance Period determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principals, provided that prior to the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine whether any significant item(s) shall be included or excluded from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Net Income
2.20 "" means as to any Performance Period, the firm orders for a system, product, part or service that are being recorded for the first time as defined in the Company's order recognition policies and procedures.
New Orders
2.21 "" means the Company's or a business unit's sum of Net Income plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures plus changes in working capital comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses, product warranty, advance payments from customers and long-term accrued expenses, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Operating Cash Flow
2.22 "" means the Company's or a business unit's income from operations but excluding any unusual items, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Operating Income
2.23 "" means as to any Performance Period, an Employee who has been selected by the Committee for participation in the Plan for that Performance Period.
Participant
2.24 "" means as to any Performance Period, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.4 in order to determine the Actual Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
Payout Formula
2.25 "" generally shall mean any Fiscal Year, however, it may also mean any such other period of time which does not exceed three Fiscal Years, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. With respect to any Participant, there shall exist no more than three Performance Periods at any one time.
Performance Period
2.26 "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant for a Target Award for a Performance Period. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals for any Target Award applicable
Performance Goals
 
to a Participant may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Cash Position, (b) Controllable Profits, (c) Customer Satisfaction MBOs, (d) Earnings Per Share, (e) EBITDA, (f) Free Cash Flow, (g) Net Income, (h) New Orders, (i) Operating Cash Flow, (j) Operating Income, (k) Return on Assets, (l) Return on Equity, (m) Return on Sales, (n) Revenue, and (o) Total Shareholder Return. Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant, Performance Period to Performance Period and from award to award. Any criteria used may be measured, as applicable, (i) in absolute terms, (ii) in relative terms (including, but not limited, passage of time and/or against another company or companies), (iii) on a per-share basis, (iv) against the performance of the Company as a whole or a segment of the Company and/or (v) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any element(s) shall be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants.
2.27 "" means the Google Inc. Executive Bonus Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
2.28 "" means, with respect to any Participant, a Termination of Employment occurring in accordance with a policy or policies established by the Committee (in its discretion) from time to time.
Retirement
2.29 "" means the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by average net Company or business unit, as applicable, assets, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Return on Assets
2.30 "" means the percentage equal to the Company's Net Income divided by average stockholder's equity, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Return on Equity
2.31 "" means the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by the Company's or the business unit's, as applicable, revenue, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Return on Sales
2.32 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's or a business unit's revenues for the Performance Period, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any item(s) shall be excluded or included from such calculation with respect to one or more Participants.
Revenue
2.33 "" means shares of the Company's common stock.
Shares
 
2.34 "" means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary or a specific dollar amount, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.3.
Target Award
2.35 "" means a cessation of the employee-employer relationship between an Employee and the Company or an Affiliate for any reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, Retirement, or the disaffiliation of an Affiliate, but excluding any such termination where there is a simultaneous reemployment by the Company or an Affiliate.
Termination of Employment
2.36 "" means the total return (change in Share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a Share.
Total Shareholder Return
3.1 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall select the Employees who shall be Participants for any Performance Period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, also may designate as Participants one or more individuals (by name or position) who are expected to become Employees during a Performance Period. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee, and on a Performance Period by Performance Period basis. Accordingly, an Employee who is a Participant for a given Performance Period in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Performance Period.
Selection of Participants
3.2 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for all eligible Participants for the Performance Period. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Performance Goals
3.3 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant. Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Target Awards
3.4 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula or Formulae for purposes of determining the Actual Award (if any) payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a Participant's Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (d) provide for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall a Participant's Actual Award for any Performance Period exceed his or her Maximum Award.
Determination of Payout Formula or Formulae
3.5 . The Committee shall make all determinations under Sections 3.1 through 3.4 on or before the Determination Date.
Date for Determinations
3.6 . After the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each
Determination of Actual Awards
 
Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance that has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) eliminate or reduce the Actual Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula, including discretion that is exercised through the establishment of additional objective or subjective goals, and (b) determine whether or not a Participant will receive an Actual Award in the event the Participant incurs a Termination of Employment prior to the date the Actual Award is to be paid pursuant Section 4.2 below.
4.1 . Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company or the Affiliate that employs the Participant (as the case may be), as determined by the Committee. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right to payment of an Actual Award other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
Right to Receive Payment
4.2 . Subject to Section 3.6, payment of each Actual Award shall be made as soon as administratively practicable, however, in the case of any Performance Period based on a Fiscal Year, in no event later than March 15
Timing of Payment
th
of the year following the end of the applicable Performance Period.
4.3 . Each Actual Award normally shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent) in a single lump sum (unless such amounts are otherwise deferred under a deferral election made in compliance with section 409A of the Code). However, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may declare any Actual Award, in whole or in part, payable in restricted stock or restricted stock units granted under the Company's 2004 Stock Plan, or any such other shareholder approved equity compensation plan. The number of Shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units granted shall be determined by dividing the cash amount foregone by the fair market value of a Share on the date that the cash payment otherwise would have been made, rounded up to the nearest whole number of Shares. For this purpose, "fair market value" shall mean the closing price on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for the day in question. Any restricted stock or restricted stock unit so awarded shall be either (a) vested immediately or (b) be subject to such additional vesting over a period of not more than four years, and/or be subject to additional vesting conditions, including specifically additional Performance Goals, as determined by the Committee in its discretion. The number of Shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units granted pursuant to this Section 4.3 may be increased or decreased if such new award is granted by the Committee subject to Performance Goals and such increase or decrease otherwise meets the performance-based compensation requirements of section 162(m) of the Code.
Form of Payment
4.4 . If a Participant dies, or is determined to have a Disability, prior to the payment of an Actual Award that was scheduled to be paid to him or her prior to death, or the determination of a Disability, for a prior Performance Period, the Award shall be paid, in the case of death, to his or her estate, and in the case of Disability, to the Participant or any other person authorized under applicable law.
Payment in the Event of Death or Disability
 
5.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall consist of not less than two (2) members of the Board. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Each member of the Committee shall qualify as an "outside director" under section 162(m) of the Code. If it is later determined that one or more members of the Committee do not so qualify, actions taken by the Committee prior to such determination shall be valid despite such failure to qualify. As of the Effective Date of the Plan, the Plan shall be administered by the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee is the Administrator
5.2 . It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with the Plan's provisions. The Committee shall have all powers and discretion necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to control its operation, including, but not limited to, the power to (a) determine which Employees shall be granted awards, (b) prescribe the terms and conditions of awards, (c) interpret the Plan and the awards, (d) adopt such procedures and subplans as are necessary or appropriate to permit participation in the Plan by Employees who are foreign nationals or employed outside of the United States, (e) adopt rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith, and (f) interpret, amend or revoke any such rules.
Committee Authority
5.3 . All determinations and decisions made by the Committee, the Board, and any delegate of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Decisions Binding
5.4 . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or part of its authority and powers under the Plan to one or more directors and/or officers of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may not delegate its authority and/or powers with respect to awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code.
Delegation by the Committee
6.1 . The Company or an Affiliate, as determined by the Committee, shall withhold all applicable taxes from any Actual Award, including any federal, state and local taxes (including, but not limited to, the Participant's FICA and SDI obligations).
Tax Withholding
6.2 . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time, with or without cause. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Affiliates (or between
No Effect on Employment
 
Affiliates) shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment. Employment with the Company and its Affiliates is on an at-will basis only. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when during or after a Performance Period such exercise occurs, to terminate any individual's employment with or without cause, and to treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant.
6.3 . No Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future award.
Participation
6.4 . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
6.5 . All obligations of the Company and any Affiliate under the Plan, with respect to awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company and/or such Affiliate, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company or such Affiliate.
Successors
6.6 . If permitted by the Committee, a Participant under the Plan may name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom any vested but unpaid award shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the Participant and shall be effective only if given in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee. In the absence of any such designation, any vested benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Beneficiary Designations
6.7 . No award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution, or to the limited extent provided in Section 6.6. All rights with respect to an award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime only to the Participant.
Nontransferability of Awards
6.8 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash that would otherwise be delivered to a Participant under the Plan. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Deferrals
 
7.1 . The Board or the Committee, each in its sole discretion, may amend or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. The amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the Participant, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Target Award theretofore granted to such Participant. No award may be granted during any period of suspension or after termination of the Plan.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination
7.2 . The Plan shall commence on the date specified herein, and subject to Section 7.1 (regarding the Board or the Committee's right to amend or terminate the Plan), shall remain in effect thereafter.
Duration of the Plan
8.1 . It is the intent of the Company that the Plan and the awards under the Plan to Participants who are or may become persons whose compensation is subject to section 162(m) of the Code, satisfy any applicable requirements of section 162(m) of the Code. Any provision, application or interpretation of the Plan inconsistent with this intent shall be disregarded. The provisions of the Plan may be bifurcated by the Board or the Committee at any time so that certain provisions of the Plan, or any award, required in order to satisfy the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code are only applicable to Participants whose compensation is subject to section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Conditions; Bifurcation of Plan
8.2 . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
8.3 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
8.4 . The granting of awards under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
8.5 . The Plan and all awards shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California, but without regard to its conflict of law provisions.
Governing Law
8.6 . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 


