FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20070828172127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Departure of Certain Officers
On August 27, 2007 George Reyes informed Google of his intention to retire as Chief Financial Officer. The effective date of his retirement has not yet been determined. George indicated that he will remain to assist in the search for a new CFO and to assure an orderly transition, which Google expects will occur by the end of the year.
This Form 8-K incorporates by reference the press release announcing George's retirement, filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
George Reyes To Retire As Google CFO
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. - August 28, 2007 - Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced that George Reyes has informed the company of his intention to retire as Chief Financial Officer. Reyes indicated that he will remain to assist in the search for a new CFO and to assure an orderly transition, which Google expects will occur by the end of the year.
"I've known and admired George since our days together at Sun," said Google Chairman and CEO, Eric Schmidt. "As Google's CFO, George successfully navigated our innovative IPO, the regulatory demands of Sarbanes-Oxley and the management challenges of scaling a global finance organization. Though we fully appreciate his decision to step back from active management, we'll miss his thoughtfulness, good humor and wisdom."
"Working at Google these past 5 and a half years has been an extraordinary ride," said George Reyes. "I'm honored and flattered to have been a part of this great management team. I know I'm leaving the company in good hands with a remarkable team of professionals that will continue to build on Google's tremendous achievements."
"George has been a full partner in Google's global growth and development," added Google co-founder, Larry Page. "He has done an excellent job in keeping us financially disciplined while protecting the best of our entrepreneurial culture."
About Google Inc.
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit .
www.google.com
Media and Analyst Contact:
David Krane
Corporate Communications
650.253.4096
david@google.com


