FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20080314162230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 11, 2008, we completed our previously announced acquisition of Click Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation ("DoubleClick"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as April 13, 2007, as amended (the "Merger Agreement"), that we entered into with DoubleClick and Whopper Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary (the "Sub").
Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Google acquired DoubleClick by means of a merger of the Sub with and into DoubleClick (the "Merger"), with DoubleClick continuing as the surviving corporation after the Merger.
At the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of any shares of the capital stock of DoubleClick, each share of DoubleClick common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time was converted into an amount in cash equal to the "Calculation Amount" divided by the total number of outstanding shares of DoubleClick common stock plus the total number of shares underlying outstanding options and stock appreciation rights for DoubleClick common stock (such quotient, the "Per Share Amount"). The "Calculation Amount" under the Merger Agreement was approximately $3.24 billion, consisting of $3.11 billion plus the cash and cash equivalents of DoubleClick and its subsidiaries plus the aggregate exercise price for outstanding options and stock appreciation rights for DoubleClick common stock minus unpaid third party expenses incurred by DoubleClick in connection with the Merger and minus all indebtedness for borrowed money of DoubleClick, in each case, as of immediately prior to the Effective Time.
At the Effective Time, each vested option and stock appreciation right for DoubleClick common stock was cancelled in exchange for a cash payment equal to the number of shares of DoubleClick common stock underlying such option or stock appreciation right multiplied by the excess, if any, of the Per Share Amount over the strike price for such option or stock appreciation right. At the Effective Time, unvested options and stock appreciation rights were converted into options to purchase Google Class A common stock with economic terms based upon the Per Share Amount in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 19, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Merger is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Not applicable
 
Not applicable
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Google Closes Acquisition of DoubleClick
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Mar 11, 2008 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) announced today that it has completed its acquisition of DoubleClick, a company that offers online ad serving and management technology to advertisers, web publishers and ad agencies.
Eric Schmidt, Google's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are thrilled that our acquisition of DoubleClick has closed. With DoubleClick, Google now has the leading display ad platform, which will enable us to rapidly bring to market advances in technology and infrastructure that will dramatically improve the effectiveness, measurability and performance of digital media for publishers, advertisers and agencies, while improving the relevance of advertising for users."
About Google Inc.
Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Google's targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit .
www.google.com
About DoubleClick, Inc.
DoubleClick is a premier provider of digital marketing technology and services. The world's top marketers, publishers and agencies utilize DoubleClick's expertise in ad serving, rich media, video, mobile, search and affiliate marketing to help them make the most of the digital medium. From its position at the nerve center of digital marketing, DoubleClick provides superior insights and insider knowledge to its customers. Learn more at .
www.doubleclick.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements relating to our ability to improve the performance of digital media and the relevance of internet advertising. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ include, among others, risks related to our ability to identify and pursue the technologies necessary to achieve these goals, as well as those risks and uncertainties included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, which is available on our investor relations website at . All information provided in this release is as of March 11, 2008, and Google undertakes no duty to update this information.
www.investor.google.com
SOURCE: Google Inc.
Google Inc.
Ellen West, 212-565-1986 (Media)
ewest@google.com
Maria Shim, 650-253-7663 (Investors)
marias@google.com


