FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20091110165728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 9, 2009, Google announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire AdMob, Inc. In connection with the acquisition, the attached letter was sent to the 32 holders of AdMob preferred and common stock that we do not yet have a reasonable belief are "accredited investors" for purposes of the private placement of shares of Google's Class A common stock in the acquisition of Admob in accordance with Regulation D. To the extent these holders do not certify that they are "accredited investors", they will receive only cash consideration unless the issuance of Google stock to them would comply with Rule 506, including the use by these holders of a "purchaser representative" in accordance with Regulation D. In accordance with Rule 135c(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, a copy of the notice is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
November 9, 2009
Dear AdMob Stockholder:
As indicated in the attached press release, dated today, AdMob and Google have signed a merger agreement pursuant to which AdMob will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Google. The closing of the merger will occur after we obtain all regulatory clearances and satisfy other customary closing conditions.
Immediately prior to the closing of the merger, all the preferred stock of AdMob will convert into common stock of AdMob. Then, at the closing, all the common stock of AdMob will convert into either cash consideration or Google's Class A common stock.
As a condition to your being able to elect to receive Google stock as merger consideration, rather than cash consideration, you must execute and return the attached acknowledgment with a box checked that indicates, as set forth in greater detail in the attached acknowledgment, that:
 
OR
 
OR
 
If you do not return the attached form signed and with boxes 1, 2 or 3 checked in a timely manner or if you return the attached form indicating that are not an accredited investor and will neither be appointing your own purchaser representative nor using the the purchaser representative that we will provide you without charge, then you will not have an opportunity to elect to receive Google stock as merger consideration and you will, subject to the closing of the merger, receive cash consideration by default.
If the attached Qualified Holder Certification is not received by AdMob by Friday, November 20, 2009, you may not be able to elect to receive Google stock consideration.
If you sign, complete (by checking boxes 1, 2 or 3) and return the attached acknowledgement in a timely manner, then we will send you a form for electing to receive Google stock consideration, rather than cash consideration, as well as a confidential information statement, to inform your decision as to whether to elect to receive Google stock or cash consideration.
The Google stock consideration to be issued in the merger will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 


