FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20110419170746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 13, 2011, in connection with the management changes that Google Inc. (Google) announced on January 20, 2011, the members of the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of Google's Board of Directors approved annual cash compensation for Eric E. Schmidt, Google's Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. Effective as of April 4, 2011, Eric will receive an annual base salary of $1.25 million and a target bonus of 400% of his base salary. Eric's actual bonus payment for 2011 can range from zero to a maximum of $6.0 million.
In addition, effective as of April 13, 2011, and in connection with a management reorganization, Alan Eustace, Google's Senior Vice President, Engineering & Research, became Google's Senior Vice President, Knowledge, and Shona L. Brown, Google's Senior Vice President, Business Operations, became Google's Senior Vice President, Google.org. Alan and Shona were among Google's named executive officers as of December 31, 2010, but will not have executive officer responsibilities in their new positions.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


