FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20120522141004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
 
On May 22, 2012, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 15, 2011 (the Merger Agreement), by and among Google Inc. (the Company), RB98 Inc. (Merger Sub) and Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (Motorola Mobility), the Company completed the acquisition of Motorola Mobility through the merger of Merger Sub with and into Motorola Mobility, with Motorola Mobility continuing as the surviving corporation (the Merger). As a result of the Merger, Motorola Mobility became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and each share of Motorola Mobilitys common stock, par value $0.01 per share, other than shares owned directly or indirectly by the Company or Merger Sub or held by Motorola Mobility as treasury stock immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger and shares held by stockholders that have properly exercised their appraisal rights in accordance with Delaware law, was canceled and converted into the right to receive $40.00 in cash, without interest and less any applicable tax withholdings.  Based on the aggregate number, immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, of the (A) shares of Motorola Mobility common stock, (B) options to purchase shares of Motorola Mobility common stock with exercise prices less than $40.00, and (C) other Motorola Mobility stock-based awards, the total purchase price was approximately $12.9 billion, assuming all unvested equity awards vest.  The increase in the estimated total purchase price (from the original estimate of approximately $12.5 billion) was related primarily to issuances of additional equity awards since the date of execution of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms.  The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Merger Agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 2.1, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Merger Agreement has been included to provide investors and security holders with information regarding its terms.  It is not intended to provide any other factual information about the Company, Motorola Mobility, Merger Sub or their respective subsidiaries and affiliates.  The Merger Agreement contains representations and warranties by the Company and Merger Sub, on the one hand, and by Motorola Mobility, on the other hand, made solely for the benefit of the other.  The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties are qualified by information in a confidential disclosure letter delivered in connection with the signing of the Merger Agreement.  The disclosure letter contains information that has been included in the Motorola Mobilitys general prior public disclosures, as well as potential additional non-public information.  The disclosure letter contains information that modifies, qualifies and creates exceptions to the representations and warranties set forth in the Merger Agreement.  Moreover, certain representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement were made as of a specified date, may be subject to a contractual standard of materiality different from what might be viewed as material to shareholders, or may have been used for the purpose of allocating risk between the Company and Merger Sub, on the one hand, and by Motorola Mobility, on the other hand.  Accordingly, the representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement should not be relied on by any persons as characterizations of the actual state of facts about the Company, Merger Sub or Motorola Mobility at the time they were made or otherwise.  In addition, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the Merger Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Companys public disclosures.
 
On May 22, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger.  A copy of the press release is incorporated as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
 
In connection with its acquisition of Motorola Mobility, the Company has amended its Risk Factors.  A copy of the amended Risk Factors is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, the registrant hereby agrees to supplementally furnish to the SEC upon request any omitted schedule or exhibit to the Merger Agreement.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA (DATE) 
Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) announced today that the acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: MMI) has closed, with Google acquiring MMI for $40.00 per share in cash.
The acquisition will enable Google to supercharge the Android ecosystem and will enhance competition in mobile computing. Motorola Mobility will remain a licensee of Android and Android will remain open. Google will run Motorola Mobility as a separate business.
continue to work with Google to help ensure a smooth transition.
Sanjay Jha, who revived Motorolas Mobile devices business and led the company through this acquisition, has stepped down as CEO, although he will
integration planning for the acquisition and
Dennis Woodside, who has overseen
previously served as President of Googles Americas region, has become CEO of Motorola Mobility.
track record of over 80 years of innovation. It
Larry Page, CEO of Google, said, Im happy to announce the deal has closed. Motorola is a great American tech company, with a
s a great time to be in the mobile business, and Im confident that the team at Motorola will be creating the next generation of mobile devices that will improve lives for years to come.
Sanjay Jha, who was responsible for building the company and placing a big bet on Android, has stepped down as CEO.  I would like to thank him for his efforts and am tremendously pleased that he will be working to ensure a smooth transition as long-time Googler Dennis Woodside takes over as CEO of Motorola Mobility.
Ive known Dennis for nearly a decade, and hes been phenomenal at building teams and delivering on some of Googles biggest bets.
Dennis has always been a committed partner to our customers and I know he will be an outstanding leader of Motorola--and hes already off to great start with some very strong new hires for the Motorola team.
Dennis Woodside, CEO of Motorola Mobility, said: Motorola literally invented the entire mobile industry with the first-ever commercial cell phone in 1983. Thirty years later, mobile devices are at the center of the computing revolution.
Our aim is simple: to focus Motorola Mobilitys remarkable talent on fewer, bigger bets, and create wonderful devices that are used by people around the world.
Dennis Woodside has hired a small number of leaders who will immediately join Motorolas executive team, including Regina Dugan (former Director of DARPA), Mark Randall (former supply chain VP at Amazon and previously at Nokia), Vanessa Wittman (former CFO of Marsh & McLennan), Scott Sullivan (former head of HR at Visa and NVIDIA), and Gary Briggs (former Google VP of Consumer Marketing).  In addition to these new leaders, many members of Motorola Mobilitys team will continue in their current roles:  Iqbal Arshad (Product Development), Marshall Brown (Chief of Staff), Fei Liu (Mass Market Products), Dan Moloney (Home), Scott Offer (General Counsel), Mark Shockley (Sales), Mahesh Veerina (Software & Enterprise)  and Jim Wicks (Consumer Experience Design).
Woodside added: Motorola Mobility has many outstanding leaders, including people who were behind the original RAZR in 2004 and recent successes like the Droid and RAZR MAXX. Our colleagues joining the team come from varied backgrounds, from DARPA to Amazon and NVIDIA, but they all share a track record of leading innovation at speed, and a great deal of excitement about the mission ahead.
 
 
 
About Dennis Woodside
Dennis Woodside oversaw Googles acquisition of Motorola Mobility, and is former President of Googles Americas region.  He has worked with partners, governments and advertisers in more than 30 countries.  
Most recently, Dennis was responsible for Googles Sales & Operations in the Americas.   He also was the lead business partner for Googles advertising product development team, helping launch new ad products globally.  Dennis started his career at the company spearheading investment across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. He was responsible for the overall go-to-market, product offering and acquisition strategies in these markets, which boasted a 20-fold increase during his tenure. Revenues grew to over $2 billion.
In the U.S. alone, Dennis and his team drove revenue from $10.8 billion to $17.5 billion in under three years.
About Google Inc.
Googles innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day. Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google today is a top web property in all major global markets. Googles targeted advertising program provides businesses of all sizes with measurable results, while enhancing the overall web experience for users. Google is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit
www.google.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as Google or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe the future impact of the Motorola Mobility acquisition, including its financial impact, and other statements of managements beliefs, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. It is uncertain whether any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do, what impact they will have on Googles results of operations, financial condition, or the price of its stock. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the ability of Google to successfully integrate Motorolas operations, product lines and technology; the ability of Google to implement its plans, forecasts and other expectations with respect to Motorolas business and realize additional opportunities for growth and innovation; and the other risks and important factors contained and identified in Googles filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this press release are made only as of the date hereof. Google does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
ITEM 1A.                      RISK FACTORS
 
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our Class A common stock.
 
Risks Related to Our Business and Industry
 
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
 
Our business is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services.  Our ability to compete successfully depends heavily on providing products and services that make using the internet a more useful and enjoyable experience for our users and delivering innovative products and technologies to the marketplace.  With our acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (Motorola), the competitive pressure to innovate will now encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historical core business.
 
We have many competitors in different industries, including general purpose search engines, vertical search engines and e-commerce sites, social networking sites, traditional media companies, wireless mobile device companies, and providers of online products and services.  Our current and potential competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Established companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users, and they can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, investing aggressively in research and development, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious) and competing aggressively for advertisers and websites. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can.
 
Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in web search, online advertising, wireless mobile devices, and web-based products and services. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is also a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology, market trends and consumer needs. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our web search technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use. If we are unable to provide quality products and services, then acceptance rates for our products and services could decline and affect consumer and advertiser perceptions of our brand. In addition, these new products and services may present new and difficult technological and legal challenges, and we may be subject to claims if users of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other issues. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, and Google Network Members, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities, or are not effectively brought to market. As technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer user experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
 
 
 
 
Our ongoing investment in new business strategies and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses.
 
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business strategies, products, services, and technologies. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
 
Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.
 
Acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and we expect our current pace of acquisitions to continue. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We also expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
 
Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize.
 
 
 
 
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could seriously harm our business.
 
We generated 96% of Google revenues in 2011 and in the three months ended March 31, 2012 from our advertisers. Following our acquisition of Motorola, we still expect a significant portion of our revenues to come from advertising. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in advertising with us does not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if we do not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may stop placing ads with us, which would adversely affect our revenues and business.
 
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and business.
 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.
 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition, changes in our product mix, query growth rates and how consumers make queries, the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, the increasing maturity of the online advertising market and the other markets in which we participate and the success of our investments in new business strategies, products, services, and technologies, such as our acquisition of Motorola.
 
The revenue growth rate of our Motorola business will also depend on a number of factors, including our reliance on several large customers, the absence of Motorolas Any of these factors could have a Motorolas
long-term exclusivity arrangements with such customers, our ability to gain significant market share in the mobile devices space, our reliance on third-party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of its products and the successful implementation of our product and operating system strategies. Furthermore, industry consolidation in the telecommunications and cable industries could negatively impact
business because there would be fewer network operators and it could be more difficult to replace any lost customers.
negative impact on
business and have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results.
 
We believe our operating margin will experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased expenditures for many aspects of our business, including Motorola. For instance, our operating margin will experience downward pressure if a greater percentage of our revenues comes from ads placed on our Google Network Members websites compared to revenues generated through ads placed on our own websites or if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote the distribution of certain products, including Google Chrome.
Both the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members and the margin on revenues from our Motorola business is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on our websites. Also, the margins on advertising revenues from mobile devices and newer advertising formats are generally less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on our websites. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could decrease in the future if we pay an even larger percentage of advertising fees to our Google Network Members.
 
We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny that may negatively impact our business.
 
The growth of our company and our expansion into a variety of new fields implicate a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. In particular, we are cooperating with the regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the European Commission (EC), and several state attorneys general in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business and its impact on competition. Legislators and regulators, including those conducting investigations in the U.S. and Europe, may make legal and regulatory changes, or interpret and apply existing laws, in ways that make our products and services less useful to our users, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These changes or increased costs could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways.
 
 
 
 
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.
 
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust (such as the pending investigations by the FTC and the EC), intellectual property, privacy, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Our acquisition of Motorola also exposes us to the risk of product liability and other litigation involving . In addition, our Motorola business faces intellectual property litigation, as further discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell Motorola products.
assertions about product defects, as well as health and safety, hazardous materials usage, and other environmental concerns
 
Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies.  Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 
Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, Google Network Members, and other partners.
 
The brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Google brand is critical to expanding our base of users, advertisers, Google Network Members, and other partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in the internet market. Our brand may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including data protection and security issues, service outages, and product malfunctions. If we fail to maintain and enhance the Google brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully.
 
A variety of new and existing U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.
 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may also impact our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have also been, or may be, threatened and filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, patent, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Moreover, recent amendments to U.S. patent laws will become effective in 2012 and may affect our ability to protect our innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement.
 
In addition, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for caching or hosting, or for listing or linking to, third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. Any future legislation impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us. Various U.S. and international laws restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as Californias Information Practices Act. We face similar risks and costs as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations.
 
We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.
 
Internet, technology, and media companies own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
 
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies, including Android, Google Search, Google AdWords, Google AdSense, Motorola, Google Books, Google News, Google Image Search, Google Chrome, Google Talk, Google Voice, and YouTube, infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against Motorola by filing claims in the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell Motorola products in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims.  
 
In addition, many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Moreover, supplier provided intellectual property indemnities to us, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from malfunctioning products.
 
 
 
 
Regardless of the merits of the claims, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such intellectual property infringement claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand.
 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective.
 
Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, because of our long-term interests in open source, we may not have adequate patent protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
 
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets.
 
We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word Google could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word search. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word Google to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
 
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
 
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.
 
We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information which we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates laws in domestic and international jurisdictions.
 
We also arrange for the distribution of third-party advertisements to third-party publishers and advertising networks, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
 
 
 
 
More people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet. If users do not widely adopt versions of our web search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices, our business could be adversely affected.
 
The number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as netbooks and tablets, video game consoles, and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. The lower resolution, functionality, and memory associated with some alternative devices make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, distributors, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
 
Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services.
 
From time to time, concerns have been expressed by regulators and others about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about, or regulatory actions involving our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.
 
In addition, as nearly all of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web-based products and services we offer, and operate in more countries.
 
Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
 
 
 
 
With our acquisition of Motorola, we face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects.
 
With our acquisition of Motorola, we face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. For instance,
the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our Motorola products does not meet our customers expectations or our products are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.
 
rely on third parties to manufacture many of Motorolas assemblies and finished products, and we have third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts. Our Motorola business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other materials terms of our arrangements with them
We
.
 
Motorola, like many electronics manufacturers, has also experienced supply shortages and price increases in the past driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters and significant changes in the financial or business condition of its suppliers.  Workaround plans to address shortages have entailed in the past, and could entail in the future, increased freight costs for expedited shipments.  We cannot assure you that we will not experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future or that they will not negatively impact our operations.  In addition, some of the components we use in our Motorola products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption.
 
Additionally, because many of our supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our Motorola sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our Motorola products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. Further, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply.
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. While final rules are not yet implemented, these rules could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us DRC conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the conflict minerals used in our products.
 
If our security measures are breached, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.
 
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users and customers proprietary information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users or customers data. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise.  Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users or customers data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.
 
 
 
 
Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services.
 
Web spam refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engines quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engines assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We have also improved our ability to detect hacked websites, a major source of web spam in 2010. We face challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. In 2011, we launched several algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. If web spam and content farms continue to increase on Google, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. In addition, as we continue to take actions to improve our search quality and reduce low-quality content, this may in the short run reduce our AdSense revenues, since some of these websites are AdSense partners.
 
Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.
 
The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using without adequate notice for financial reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities. Any errors or vulnerabilities in our products and services, or damage to or failure of our systems, could result in interruptions in our services, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand.
 
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
 
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to further expand internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our total Google revenues in 2011 and in the three months ended March 31, 2012, and more than half of our user traffic has been coming from outside the U.S. In certain international markets, we have limited operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed.
 
 
 
 
Our Motorola business also has many manufacturing, research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S., and more than half of our Motorola employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our Motorola suppliers operations are outside the U.S. and nearly all of our Motorola products (other than some prototypes) are manufactured outside the U.S., primarily in China, Taiwan and Brazil.
If our manufacturing in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. We require these suppliers and business partners to operate in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If one of these suppliers or business partners violates labor or other laws or implements practices that are regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If one of our suppliers or business partners fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our financial results and prospects.
 
Moreover, in connection with our operations in Brazil, we have had and continue to have legal disputes and controversies, including tax, labor and trade compliance controversies and other legal matters that take many years to resolve. We incur legal and other costs in managing and defending these matters and expect to continue to incur such costs. Based on our assessment of these matters, we have recorded reserves on only a small portion of the total potential exposure. It is, however, very difficult to predict the outcome of legal disputes and controversies, including litigation, in Brazil and our ultimate exposure may be greater than our current assessments and related reserves.
 
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.
 
Furthermore,
our Motorola business has had, and continues to have, a policy requiring our suppliers, business partners and customers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and Motorolas code of business conduct regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents owned by third parties, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations and harm our brand.
 
Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net income. Additionally, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
 
If we were to lose the services of Larry, Sergey, Eric, or other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
 
Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Google and the development of our technology. Along with our Executive Chairman Eric E. Schmidt, they also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
 
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.
 
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
 
 
 
 
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success.
 
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
 
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users and advertisers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.
 
New technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business.
 
Technologies have been developed (including by us) that can block the display of our ads and that provide tools to users to opt out of our advertising products. Most of our revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages for our users. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results.
 
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.
 
Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
 
We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.
 
Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
 
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
 
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, user traffic tends to be seasonal. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.
 
Motorola could be subject to significant liability under a Tax Sharing Agreement with Motorola Solutions if the Merger or subsequent transactions were to cause the spinoff of Motorola from Motorola Solutions (the Spinoff) to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
In connection with the Spinoff, Motorola and Motorola Solutions entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement (the Tax Sharing Agreement) under which Motorola agreed not to take any of certain actions during the two-year period ending January 4, 2013, without the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of tax counsel, in either case acceptable to Motorola Solutions in its discretion, to the effect that such action will not affect the tax-free status of the Spinoff and certain related transactions (or the waiver by Motorola Solutions of the requirement to obtain the private letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel). Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz issued an opinion to Motorola and to Motorola Solutions, dated August 14, 2011, to the effect that, based on representations made by Motorola and Motorola Solutions and subject to the limitations and qualifications set out in the opinion, the acquisition of Motorola will not affect the tax-free status of the Spinoff and certain related transactions.  Motorola Solutions accepted that opinion as satisfying the requirements of the Tax Sharing Agreement with respect to the acquisition.
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding acceptance of the opinion by Motorola Solutions, under the Tax Sharing Agreement, which remains in effect, Motorola must indemnify Motorola Solutions and its affiliates against any and all tax-related liabilities incurred by them relating to the Spinoff and certain related transactions to the extent caused by Motorola.  This obligation is not capped and could subject Motorola to substantial liabilities.  Moreover, restrictions under the Tax Sharing Agreement may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions with respect to Motorolas stock or assets, or to engage in new business or other transactions intended to maximize the value of Motorolas business.
 
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock
 
.
The trading price for our Class A common stock may continue to be volatile, and if the creation of our proposed class of non-voting Class C capital stock is approved by stockholders and shares of the new class are distributed as expected, the trading price of that class may also be volatile and may affect the trading price for the Class A common stock
 
The trading price of our Class A common stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 3, 2011 through March 31, 2012, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $474.88 per share to $668.28 per share. The trading price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, we recently announced a proposal to create a new class of non-voting capital stock, known as the Class C capital stock, to help us manage the dilutive impact of additional equity issuances in financing and stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs. Although the proposal is subject to stockholder approval at our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, Larry and Sergey will have the power, based on the size of their beneficial ownership of our Class A and Class B common stock, to approve the proposal without the affirmative vote of any other stockholder. They and Eric have also indicated their intention to vote in favor of the proposal. We also announced the intention of our board of directors, if the proposal is approved, to consider a distribution of shares of the Class C capital stock as a dividend to our holders of Class A and Class B common stock.
 
Although we plan to list the Class C capital stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market, we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, a liquid trading market will develop for the Class C capital stock. If it does not or if the Class C capital stock is not attractive to targets as an acquisition currency or to our employees as an incentive, we may not achieve our objectives in creating this new class. As in the case of the Class A common stock, the trading price for the Class C capital stock may also be volatile and affected by the factors noted above, as well as by the difference in voting rights as between the Class A common stock and the Class C capital stock, the volume of Class C capital stock available for public sale and sales by us and our stockholders of Class C capital stock, including by institutional investors that may be unwilling, unable or choose not to hold non-voting shares they receive as part of the stock dividend, if it is declared and paid. Whether or not the Class C capital stock is included in stock indices in the future may also affect the trading prices of the Class A common stock and the Class C capital stock.
 
 
 
 
In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock, and, if approved and issued, our Class C capital Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.
 
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters.
 
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of March 31, 2012, Larry, Sergey, and Eric beneficially owned approximately 92% of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 66% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, as noted above, we have announced a proposal to create the Class C capital stock and the intention of our board of directors to consider a stock dividend of shares of this new class. Because the Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergeys current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Together with Eric, they would also continue to be able to control any required stockholder vote with respect to certain change in control transactions involving Google (including an acquisition of Google by another company).
 
This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and, if approved and issued, our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected.
 
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
 
Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
 
 
 


