FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20120719160358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2012, Google Inc. ("") is issuing a press release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Google
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Google is making reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the press release and the conference call. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
A copy of the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of income, and consolidated statements of cash flows for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and other financial tables are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Google Inc. Announces Second Quarter 2012 Results
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  July 19, 2012  Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
"Google standalone had a strong quarter with 21% year-on-year revenue growth, and we launched a bunch of exciting new products at I/O  in particular the Nexus 7 tablet, which has received rave reviews," said Larry Page, CEO of Google. "This quarter is also special because Motorola is now part of the Google family, and we're excited about the potential to build great devices for users."
Q2 Financial Summary
Google Inc. completed its acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (Motorola) on May 22, 2012 (the acquisition date). The assets and liabilities of Motorola were included in Google Inc.'s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2012, and the operating results of Motorola were included in Google Inc.'s Consolidated Statement of Income from the acquisition date through June 30, 2012. CFO Patrick Pichette noted: "We can expect Motorola to continue to show some accounting variability, as is typical with the closing of such large transactions."
Google Inc. reported consolidated revenues of $12.21 billion for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, an increase of 35% compared to the second quarter of 2011. Google Inc. reports its revenues, consistent with GAAP, on a gross basis without deducting traffic acquisition costs (TAC). In the second quarter of 2012, TAC totaled $2.60 billion, or 25% of advertising revenues.
Operating income, operating margin, net income, and earnings per share (EPS) are reported on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The non-GAAP measures, as well as free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, are described below and are reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures at the end of this release.
 
 
 
 
Q2 Financial Highlights
On a consolidated basis, Google Inc. revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 was $12.21 billion, an increase of 35% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Revenues and Other Information 
 
 
 
  Google revenues from outside of the United States totaled $5.96 billion, representing 54% of Google revenues in the second quarter of 2012, compared to 54% in the first quarter of 2012 and 54% in the second quarter of 2011.
Google International Revenues
 Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the first quarter of 2012 through the second quarter of 2012, our Google revenues in the second quarter of 2012 would have been $68 million higher. Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the second quarter of 2011 through the second quarter of 2012, our Google revenues in the second quarter of 2012 would have been $350 million higher.
Foreign Exchange Impact on Google Revenues
 
 
Reconciliations of our consolidated non-GAAP international revenues and Google non-GAAP international revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange and hedging to consolidated GAAP international revenues and Google GAAP international revenues are included at the end of this release.
  Aggregate paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, increased approximately 42% over the second quarter of 2011 and increased approximately 1% over the first quarter of 2012.
Paid Clicks
  Average cost-per-click, which includes clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, decreased approximately 16% over the second quarter of 2011 and increased approximately 1% over the first quarter of 2012.
Cost-Per-Click
  Traffic acquisition costs, the portion of revenues shared with Google's partners, increased to $2.60 billion in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $2.11 billion in the second quarter of 2011. TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was 25% in the second quarter of 2012, compared to 24% in the second quarter of 2011.
TAC
The majority of TAC is related to amounts ultimately paid to our Network members, which totaled $2.09 billion in the second quarter of 2012. TAC also includes amounts ultimately paid to certain distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our website, which totaled $507 million in the second quarter of 2012.
  Other cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of data center operational expenses, amortization of intangible assets, content acquisition costs, credit card processing charges, and manufacturing and inventory-related costs, increased to $2.41 billion, or 20% of revenues, in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $1.06 billion, or 12% of revenues, in the second quarter of 2011.
Other Cost of Revenues
  Operating expenses, other than cost of revenues, were $4.0 billion in the second quarter of 2012, or 33% of revenues, compared to $2.97 billion in the second quarter of 2011, or 33% of revenues.
Operating Expenses
  In the second quarter of 2012, the total charge related to SBC was $658 million, of which $93 million was related to severance and benefit arrangements in connection with the Motorola acquisition, compared to $435 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Stock-Based Compensation (SBC)
We currently estimate SBC charges for grants to employees prior to June 30, 2012 to be approximately $2.6 billion for 2012. This estimate does not include expenses to be recognized related to employee stock awards that are granted after June 30, 2012 or non-employee stock awards that have been or may be granted.
 Amortization expenses of acquisition-related intangible assets were $193 million in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $106 million in the second quarter of 2011. Of the $193 million, $62 million was as a result of the acquisition of Motorola, of which $32 million was allocated to Google and $30 million was allocated to Motorola.
Amortization Expenses
 On a consolidated basis, GAAP operating income in the second quarter of 2012 was $3.20 billion, or 26% of revenues. This compares to GAAP operating income of $2.88 billion, or 32% of revenues, in the second quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP operating income in the second quarter of 2012 was $3.95 billion, or 32% of revenues. This compares to non-GAAP operating income of $3.32 billion, or 37% of revenues, in the second quarter of 2011.
Operating Income
 
 
  Interest and other income, net increased to $254 million in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $204 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Interest and Other Income, Net
  Our effective tax rate was 19% for the second quarter of 2012.
Income Taxes
  GAAP net income in the second quarter of 2012 was $2.79 billion, compared to $2.51 billion in the second quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP net income was $3.35 billion in the second quarter of
Net Income
2012, compared to $2.85 billion in the second quarter of 2011. GAAP EPS in the second quarter of 2012 was $8.42 on 331 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $7.68 in the second quarter of 2011 on 326 million diluted shares outstanding. Non-GAAP EPS in the second quarter of 2012 was $10.12, compared to $8.74 in the second quarter of 2011.
  Net cash provided by operating activities in the second quarter of 2012 totaled $4.25 billion, compared to $3.52 billion in the second quarter of 2011. In the second quarter of 2012, capital expenditures were $774 million, the majority of which was related to IT infrastructure investments, including data centers, servers, and networking equipment. Free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In the second quarter of 2012, free cash flow was $3.48 billion.
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditures
We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures.
A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the GAAP measure of liquidity, is included at the end of this release.
  As of June 30, 2012, cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities were $43.1 billion.
Cash
  On a worldwide basis, we employed 54,604 full-time employees (34,311 in our Google business and 20,293 in our Motorola business) as of June 30, 2012, compared to 33,077 full-time employees as of March 31, 2012.
Headcount
WEBCAST AND CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live audio webcast of Google Inc.'s second quarter 2012 earnings release call will be available at . The call begins today at 1:30 PM (PT) / 4:30 PM (ET). This press release, the financial tables, as well as other supplemental information including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, are also available on that site.
http://investor.google.com/webcast.html
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include statements regarding our continued investments in our core areas of strategic focus, our expected SBC charges, and our plans to make significant capital expenditures. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, unforeseen changes in our hiring patterns and our need to expend capital to accommodate the growth of the business, as well as those risks and uncertainties included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, and our Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2012, which are on file with the SEC and are available on our investor relations website at investor.google.com and on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Additional information will also be set forth in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of July 19, 2012, and we undertake no duty to update this information unless required by law.
ABOUT NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which statements are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the following non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP EPS, free cash flow, and non-
GAAP international revenues. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned "Reconciliations of selected non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP financial measures," "Reconciliations of non-GAAP results of operations measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures," "Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow," and "Reconciliation from GAAP international revenues to non-GAAP international revenues" included at the end of this release.
We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain expenses and expenditures that may not be indicative of our "recurring core business operating results," meaning our operating performance excluding not only non-cash charges, such as SBC, but also discrete cash charges that are infrequent in nature. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business.
 We define non-GAAP operating income as operating income plus expenses related to SBC, and, as applicable, other special items. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating income divided by revenues. Google considers these non-GAAP financial measures to be useful metrics for management and investors because they exclude the effect of SBC, and as applicable, other special items so that Google's management and investors can compare Google's recurring core business operating results over multiple periods. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, Google's management believes that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes SBC allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between Google's recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing Google's management with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating Google's own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP operating income versus operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, non-GAAP operating income excludes some costs, namely, SBC, that are recurring. SBC has been and will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in Google's business. Second, SBC is an important part of our employees' compensation and impacts their performance. Third, the components of the costs that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP operating income may differ from the components that our peer companies exclude when they report their results of operations. Management compensates for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating income and evaluating non-GAAP operating income together with operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP operating income and operating margin.
 We define non-GAAP net income as net income plus expenses related to SBC, and, as applicable, other special items less the related tax effects. The tax effects of SBC and, as applicable, other special items are calculated using the tax-deductible portion of SBC, and, as applicable, other special items, and applying the entity-specific, U.S. federal and blended state tax rates. We define non-GAAP EPS as non-GAAP net income divided by the weighted average outstanding shares, on a fully-diluted basis. We consider these non-GAAP financial measures to be a useful metric for management and investors for the same reasons that Google uses non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin. However, in order to provide a complete picture of our recurring core business operating results, we exclude from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS the tax effects associated with SBC and, as applicable, other special items. Without excluding these tax effects, investors would only see the gross effect that excluding these expenses had on our operating results. The
Non-GAAP net income and EPS.
same limitations described above regarding Google's use of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin apply to our use of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS. Management compensates for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS and evaluating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS together with net income and EPS calculated in accordance with GAAP.
. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, including information technology infrastructure and land and buildings, can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic acquisitions, and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of our operating results to competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Google is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period because it excludes cash used for capital expenditures during the period. Our management compensates for this limitation by providing information about our capital expenditures on the face of the statement of cash flows and under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. Google has computed free cash flow using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
Free cash flow
. We define non-GAAP international revenues as international revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange and hedging. Non-GAAP international revenues are calculated by translating current quarter revenues using prior quarter and prior year exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging gains realized in the current quarter. We consider non-GAAP international revenues as a useful metric as it facilitates management's internal comparison to our historical performance.
Non-GAAP international revenues
The accompanying tables have more details on the non-GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliations between these financial measures.
Contact:
Willa Lo
Investor Relations
+1-650-214-3381
wlo@google.com
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of selected non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP financial measures
The following tables present reconciliations of selected non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP financial measures (in millions, unaudited):
 
 
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP results of operations measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures
The following table presents certain non-GAAP results before certain material items (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts, unaudited):
 
 
The following tables present certain non-GAAP results before certain material items by business (in millions, unaudited):
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions, unaudited):
 
 
Reconciliation from GAAP international revenues to non-GAAP international revenues (in millions, unaudited):
 
 
The following table presents our consolidated revenues by revenue source (in millions, unaudited):
 
The following table presents our Google revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of Google revenues (unaudited):
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
The following table presents our consolidated revenues by revenue source (in millions, unaudited):
 
The following table presents our Google revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of Google revenues (unaudited):
 


