FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20120112163629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 11, 2012, the Board of Directors (Board) of Google Inc. (Google) appointed Diane B. Greene to serve as a member of the Board and the Audit Committee of the Board (Audit Committee), effective January 12, 2012.
Ms. Greene, 56, has been a member of the board of directors of Intuit Inc. since August 2006 and serves on its Audit and Risk Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Ms. Greene co-founded VMware, Inc. in 1998 and took the company public in 2007. She served as Chief Executive Officer and President of VMware from 1998 to 2008, as a member of the board of directors of VMware from 2007 to 2008, and as an Executive Vice President of EMC Corporation from 2005 to 2008. Prior to VMware, Ms. Greene held technical leadership positions at Silicon Graphics Inc., Tandem Computers, Inc., and Sybase Inc., and was Chief Executive Officer of VXtreme, Inc. Ms. Greene is also a member of The MIT Corporation. Ms. Greene holds a Master of Science degree in computer science from the University of California at Berkeley, a Master of Science degree in naval architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Bachelor of Arts degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Vermont.
In connection with her appointment to the Board, Ms. Greene will be granted an initial equity award of $1,000,000 in the form of Google Stock Units (GSUs) on the first Wednesday of the month following her appointment to the Board. The exact number of GSUs comprising the grant will be calculated by dividing $1,000,000 by the closing price of Google's Class A common stock on the day prior to grant. These GSUs will vest at the rate of 25% on the 25th day of the month in which the grant's first anniversary occurs, and an additional 1/48th will vest on the 25th day of each month thereafter, subject to continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date. Following each annual stockholder meeting, Ms. Greene will also be eligible to receive Google's standard compensation arrangement for non-employee directors, which consists of an annual $350,000 GSU grant, vesting monthly over a period of four years, and an annual $75,000 cash retainer. The grant and payment following the 2012 annual stockholder meeting will be prorated based upon the time between the effective date of Ms. Greene's appointment to the Board and the date of the meeting. The GSUs are subject to the terms and conditions of Google's 2004 Stock Plan and its related grant agreements. Google will also reimburse Ms. Greene for all reasonable expenses in connection with her services to Google. A copy of the letter agreement between Ms. Greene and Google is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In addition, Ms. Greene will execute Google's form of indemnification agreement, a copy of which has been filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Google's Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 12, 2004.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Following Ms. Greene's appointment to the Audit Committee, L. John Doerr resigned from the Audit Committee, effective January 12, 2012. Mr. Doerr continues to serve as a member of the Board and the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
January 10, 2012
Dear Diane,
On behalf of Google Inc., I am pleased to offer you a position as a member of Google's Board of Directors (the Board) with an effective date of January 12, 2012.
As compensation for your services to Google, you will be granted an initial equity award of $1,000,000 in the form of Google Stock Units (GSUs) on the first Wednesday of the month following your initial appointment (i.e., grant date of February 1, 2012). The exact number of GSUs comprising this grant will be calculated by dividing $1,000,000 by the closing price of Google's Class A common stock on the day prior to grant. These GSUs will vest at the rate of 25% on the 25th day of the month in which the grant's first anniversary occurs, and an additional 1/48th will vest on the 25th day of each month thereafter, subject to continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting date.
Following each annual stockholder meeting, you will be eligible to receive annualized compensation of a $350,000 GSU grant and a $75,000 cash retainer for the prior year of service. Note your 2012 awards will be prorated based upon the time between the effective date of your appointment and the stockholder meeting. Shares and cash payments will be made the first Wednesday of the month following the stockholder meeting. If the US financial markets are closed on that date, GSUs will be granted on the following Wednesday. The exact number of GSUs comprising this grant will be calculated by dividing the GSU grant value by the closing price of Google's stock on the day prior to grant. These GSUs will vest monthly over a period of four years, beginning on the 25th day of the month following grant, until fully vested.
At the time of vest, any vested GSUs will convert to Google Class A common shares. If the US financial markets are closed on a vesting date, shares will vest on the next trading day. Vesting in GSUs is contingent on continued service on the Board on the applicable vesting dates. These awards and all future equity awards are subject to the terms and conditions of applicable plan documents and award agreements. Please note that ongoing compensation for service on the Board may be changed at any time at the discretion of the Board.
You will also be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred by you in connection with your services to Google. All expense reimbursements are in accordance with established Google policies.
We typically hold at least four one-day Board meetings per year. Board meetings are generally held on-site at Google and we would hope that your schedule would permit you to attend all of the meetings in person (note that telephonic attendance is also possible). In addition, there may be telephonic calls to address special projects that arise from time to time. The Board has delegated certain duties to other committees, on which you may be asked to participate. At this time, we request your participation on the Audit Committee.
Nothing in this offer or the GSU agreement should be construed to interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of Google and Google's stockholders to remove any individual from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
This letter sets forth the terms of your service with Google and supersedes any prior representations or agreements, whether written or oral. This letter may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement, signed by a representative of Google and by you.
We hope that you find the above terms acceptable. You may indicate your agreement with these terms and accept this offer by signing and dating both the enclosed duplicate and original letter and returning them to Kent Walker, our General Counsel.
Diane, I am looking forward to you joining Google's Board of Directors. I believe you will make a significant contribution to Google.
Sincerely,
Google Inc.
 
on behalf of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
of the Board
Accepted and agreed to this
11
th
day of January, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Google appoints Diane B. Greene to its Board of Directors
Greene will also serve on Audit Committee
Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced it has appointed Diane B. Greene to its Board of Directors. An experienced entrepreneur, technological innovator, and corporate executive with more than three decades of experience, Greene will also serve on Google's Audit Committee. Her appointment is effective January 12, 2012.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  January 12, 2012 
"Diane is a special person who combines a sharp business acumen with a brilliant technical mind," said Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google. "We know she will be a great contributor and we are grateful to have her insight."
"Google is an asset to society because of its relentless focus on improving users' lives through pioneering technology, and it is also a standout growing business," said Greene. "It is incredibly exciting to have the opportunity to support this as a board member."
Greene, 56, has been a member of the board of directors of Intuit Inc. since August 2006 and serves on its Audit and Risk Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Greene co-founded VMware, Inc. in 1998 and took the company public in 2007. She served as Chief Executive Officer and President of VMware from 1998 to 2008, as a member of the board of directors of VMware from 2007 to 2008, and as an Executive Vice President of EMC Corporation from 2005 to 2008.
Prior to VMware, Greene held technical leadership positions at Silicon Graphics Inc., Tandem Computers, Inc., and Sybase Inc., and was Chief Executive Officer of VXtreme, Inc. She is also a member of The MIT Corporation.
Greene holds a Master of Science degree in computer science from the University of California at Berkeley, a Master of Science degree in naval architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Bachelor of Arts degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Vermont.
About Google Inc.
Google (NASDAQ: GOOG) is a global technology leader focused on improving the ways people connect with information. Google's innovations in web search and advertising have made its website a top internet property and its brand one of the most recognized in the world.


