FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20120412160851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 12, 2012, Google Inc. ("") is issuing a press release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Google
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Google is making reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the press release and the conference call. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
 
A copy of the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of income, and consolidated statements of cash flows for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and other financial tables are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
On April 12, 2012, Google announced that its Board of Directors has unanimously approved a proposal (the "") to amend Google's certificate of incorporation to create a new class of capital stock, subject to stockholder approval at Google's annual meeting of stockholders on June 21, 2012 (the ""). Copies of the letter from Larry Page and Sergey Brin with David Drummond's postscript posted on Google+ and Google's internal communications documents describing the Proposal are filed as Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4, respectively, to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
Proposal
2012 Annual Meeting
Additional Information and Where to Find It
This Current Report on Form 8-K may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the solicitation of proxies from stockholders for Google's 2012 Annual Meeting. Google intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and make available to the stockholders of Google of record on April 23, 2012 a proxy statement containing important information about the Proposal and certain other matters to be considered by the stockholders of Google at its 2012 Annual Meeting. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, GOOGLE'S STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE CAREFULLY AND IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSAL AND CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE 2012 ANNUAL MEETING.
SEC
Investors will be able to obtain the proxy statement and other relevant materials, when available, free of charge at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by Google, including the proxy statement when available, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, will be available free of charge from Google, at Google's website () or by writing to Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, Attn: Corporate Secretary.
http://www.google.com
Participants in the Solicitation
Google and its directors, nominees, and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Google's stockholders with respect to the matters to be considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting, including the Proposal. Information regarding the names, affiliations, and direct or indirect interests (by security holdings or otherwise) of these persons will be described in the proxy statement to be filed with the SEC.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Google Announces First Quarter 2012 Results and Proposal for New Class of Stock
Proposal Would Effectively Implement 2-for-1 Stock Split While Preserving Long-Term Governance Structure
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  April 12, 2012  Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) today announced financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
"Google had another great quarter with revenues up 24% year on year," said Larry Page, CEO of Google. "We also saw tremendous momentum from the big bets we've made in products like Android, Chrome and YouTube. We are still at the very early stages of what technology can do to improve people's lives and we have enormous opportunities ahead. It is a very exciting time to be at Google."
Google announced today that its Board of Directors unanimously approved a stock dividend proposal designed to preserve the corporate structure that has allowed Google to remain focused on the long term. More information is available on our Investor Relations site, including a letter from our founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin explaining the , and in our forthcoming proxy statement.
proposal
Q1 Financial Summary
Google reported revenues of $10.65 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, an increase of 24% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Google reports its revenues, consistent with GAAP, on a gross basis without deducting traffic acquisition costs (TAC). In the first quarter of 2012, TAC totaled $2.51 billion, or 25% of advertising revenues.
Google reports operating income, operating margin, net income, and earnings per share (EPS) on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The non-GAAP measures, as well as free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, are described below and are reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures at the end of this release.
 
 
 
 
Q1 Financial Highlights
  Google reported revenues of $10.65 billion in the first quarter of 2012, representing a 24% increase over first quarter 2011 revenues of $8.58 billion. Google reports its revenues, consistent with GAAP, on a gross basis without deducting TAC.
Revenues
  Google-owned sites generated revenues of $7.31 billion, or 69% of total revenues, in the first quarter of 2012. This represents a 24% increase over first quarter 2011 revenues of $5.88 billion.
Google Sites Revenues
  Google's partner sites generated revenues of $2.91 billion, or 27% of total revenues, in the first quarter of 2012. This represents a 20% increase from first quarter 2011 network revenues of $2.43 billion.
Google Network Revenues
  Revenues from outside of the United States totaled $5.77 billion, representing 54% of total revenues in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 53% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 53% in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the fourth quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of 2012, our revenues in the first quarter of 2012 would have been $79 million higher. Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the first quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of 2012, our revenues in the first quarter of 2012 would have been $67 million higher.
International Revenues
 
 
A reconciliation of our non-GAAP international revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange and hedging to GAAP international revenues is included at the end of this release.
  Aggregate paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, increased approximately 39% over the first quarter of 2011 and increased approximately 7% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Paid Clicks
  Average cost-per-click, which includes clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, decreased approximately 12% over the first quarter of 2011 and decreased approximately 6% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Cost-Per-Click
  Traffic acquisition costs, the portion of revenues shared with Google's partners, increased to $2.51 billion in the first quarter of 2012, compared to TAC of $2.04 billion in the first quarter of 2011. TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was 25% in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 25% in the first quarter of 2011.
TAC
The majority of TAC is related to amounts ultimately paid to our Network members, which totaled $2.04 billion in the first quarter of 2012. TAC also includes amounts ultimately paid to certain distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our website, which totaled $468 million in the first quarter of 2012.
  Other cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of data center operational expenses, amortization of intangible assets, content acquisition costs, and credit card processing charges increased to $1.28 billion, or 12% of revenues, in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $897 million, or 10% of revenues, in the first quarter of 2011.
Other Cost of Revenues
  Operating expenses, other than cost of revenues, were $3.47 billion in the first quarter of 2012, or 33% of revenues, compared to $3.34 billion in the first quarter of 2011, or 39% of revenues.
Operating Expenses
  In the first quarter of 2012, the total charge related to SBC was $556 million, compared to $432 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Stock-Based Compensation (SBC)
We currently estimate SBC charges for grants to employees prior to March 31, 2012 to be approximately $2 billion for 2012. This estimate does not include expenses to be recognized related to employee stock awards that are granted after March 31, 2012 or non-employee stock awards that have been or may be granted.
  GAAP operating income in the first quarter of 2012 was $3.39 billion, or 32% of revenues. This compares to GAAP operating income of $2.30 billion, or 27% of revenues, in the first quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter of 2012 was $3.94 billion, or 37% of revenues. This compares to non-GAAP operating income of $3.23 billion, or 38% of revenues, in the first quarter of 2011.
Operating Income
  Interest and other income, net increased to $156 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $96 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Interest and Other Income, Net
  Our effective tax rate was 18% for the first quarter of 2012.
Income Taxes
  GAAP net income in the first quarter of 2012 was $2.89 billion, compared to $1.80 billion in the first quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP net income was $3.33 billion in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $2.64 billion in the first quarter of 2011. GAAP EPS in the first quarter of 2012 was $8.75 on 330 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $5.51 in the first quarter of 2011 on 326 million diluted shares outstanding. Non-GAAP EPS in the first quarter of 2012 was $10.08, compared to $8.08 in the first quarter of 2011.
Net Income
  Net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2012 totaled $3.69 billion, compared to $3.17 billion in the first quarter of 2011. In the first quarter of 2012, capital expenditures were $607 million, the majority of which was related to IT infrastructure investments, including data centers, servers, and networking equipment. Free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In the first quarter of 2012, free cash flow was $3.09 billion.
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditures
We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures.
A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the GAAP measure of liquidity, is included at the end of this release.
  As of March 31, 2012, cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities were $49.3 billion.
Cash
  On a worldwide basis, Google employed 33,077 full-time employees as of March 31, 2012, up from 32,467 full-time employees as of December 31, 2011.
Headcount
WEBCAST AND CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live audio webcast of Google's first quarter 2012 earnings release call will be available at . The call begins today at 1:30 PM (PT) / 4:30 PM (ET). This press release, the financial tables, as well as other supplemental information including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, are also available on that site.
http://investor.google.com/webcast.html
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include statements regarding our continued investments in our core areas of strategic focus, our expected SBC charges, and our plans to make significant capital expenditures. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, unforeseen changes in our hiring patterns and our need to expend capital to accommodate the growth of the business, as well as those risks and uncertainties included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2011, which is on file with the SEC and is available on our investor relations website at investor.google.com and on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Additional information will also be set forth in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of April 12, 2012, and we undertake no duty to update this information unless required by law.
ABOUT NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which statements are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the following non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP EPS, free cash flow, and non-GAAP international revenues. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned "Reconciliations of non-GAAP results of operations measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures," "Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow," and "Reconciliation from GAAP international revenues to non-GAAP international revenues" included at the end of this release.
We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain expenses and expenditures that may not be indicative of our "recurring core business operating results," meaning our operating performance excluding not only non-cash charges, such as SBC, but also discrete cash charges that are infrequent in nature. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business.
 We define non-GAAP operating income as operating income plus expenses related to SBC, and, as applicable, other special items. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating income divided by revenues. Google considers these non-GAAP financial measures to be useful metrics for management and investors because they exclude the effect of SBC and as applicable, other special items so that Google's management and investors can compare Google's recurring core business operating results over multiple periods. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, Google's management believes that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes SBC allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between Google's recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing Google's management with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating Google's own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP operating income versus operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, non-GAAP operating income excludes some costs, namely, SBC, that are recurring. SBC has been and will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in Google's business. Second, SBC is an important part of our employees' compensation and impacts their performance. Third, the components of the costs that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP operating income may differ from the components that our peer companies exclude when they report their results of operations. Management compensates for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating income and evaluating non-GAAP operating income together with operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP operating income and operating margin.
 We define non-GAAP net income as net income plus expenses related to SBC, and, as applicable, other special items less the related tax effects. The tax effect of SBC is calculated using the tax-deductible portion of SBC and applying the entity-specific, U.S. federal and blended state tax rates. We define non-GAAP EPS as non-GAAP net income divided by the weighted average outstanding shares, on a fully-diluted basis. We consider these non-GAAP financial measures to be a useful metric for management and investors for the same reasons that Google uses non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin. However, in order to provide a complete picture of our recurring core business operating results, we exclude from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS the tax effects associated with SBC and, as applicable, other special items. Without excluding these tax effects, investors would only see the gross effect that excluding these expenses had on our operating results. The same limitations described above regarding Google's use of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin apply to our use of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS. Management compensates for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS and evaluating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS together with net income and EPS calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP net income and EPS.
. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, including information technology infrastructure and land and buildings, can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic acquisitions, and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of our operating results to competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Google is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period because it excludes cash used for capital expenditures during the period. Our management compensates for this limitation by providing information about our capital expenditures on the face of the statement of cash flows and under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. Google has computed free cash flow using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
Free cash flow
. We define non-GAAP international revenues as international revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange and hedging. Non-GAAP international revenues are calculated by translating current quarter revenues using prior quarter and prior year exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging gains realized in the current quarter. We consider non-GAAP international revenues as a useful metric as it facilitates management's internal comparison to our historical performance.
Non-GAAP international revenues
The accompanying tables have more details on the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to non-GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliations between these financial measures.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
This press release may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the solicitation of proxies from stockholders for Google's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders (""). Google intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and make available to the stockholders of Google of record on April 23, 2012 a proxy statement containing important information about the proposed creation of a new class of stock (the "") and certain other matters to be considered by the stockholders of Google at its 2012 Annual Meeting. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, GOOGLE'S STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE CAREFULLY AND IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSAL AND CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE 2012 ANNUAL MEETING.
2012 Annual Meeting
SEC
Proposal
Investors will be able to obtain the proxy statement and other relevant materials, when available, free of charge at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by Google, including the proxy statement when available, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, will be available free of charge from Google, at Google's website () or by writing to Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, Attn: Corporate Secretary.
http://www.google.com
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Google and its directors, nominees, and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Google's stockholders with respect to the matters to be considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting, including the Proposal. Information regarding the names, affiliations, and direct or indirect interests (by security holdings or otherwise) of these persons will be described in the proxy statement to be filed with the SEC.
Contact:
Willa Lo
Investor Relations
+1-650-214-3381
wlo@google.com
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP results of operations measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures
The following table presents certain non-GAAP results before certain material items (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts, unaudited):
 
 
Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions, unaudited):
 
 
Reconciliation from GAAP international revenues to non-GAAP international revenues (in millions, unaudited):
 
The following table presents our revenues by revenue source (in millions, unaudited):
 
The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues (unaudited):
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
The following table presents our revenues by revenue source (in millions, unaudited):
 
The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues (unaudited):
 

Exhibit 99.3
FOUNDERS' LETTER 2012
Introduction
Throughout our evolution, from privately held start-up to large, publicly listed company, we have managed Google for the long termenjoying tremendous success as a result, especially since our IPO in 2004. Sergey and I hoped, though we did not expect, that Google would have such significant impact, and this progress has made us even more impatient to do important things that matter in the world. Our enduring love for Google comes from a strong desire to create technology products that enrich millions of people's lives in deep and meaningful ways. To fulfill these dreams, we need to ensure that Google remains a successful, growing business that can generate significant returns for everyone involved.
Corporate Structure
When we went public, we created a dual-class voting structure. Our goal was to maintain the freedom to focus on the long term by ensuring that the management team, in particular Eric, Sergey and I, retained control over Google's destiny. As we explained in our :
first founders' letter
"
We are creating a corporate structure that is designed for stability over long time horizons. By investing in Google, you are placing an unusual long term bet on the team, especially Sergey and me, and on our innovative approach
We want Google to become an important and significant institution. That takes time, stability and independence
In the transition to public ownership, we have set up a corporate structure that will make it harder for outside parties to take over or influence Google. This structure will also make it easier for our management team to follow the long term, innovative approach emphasized earlier
The main effect of this structure is likely to leave our team, especially Sergey and me, with increasingly significant control over the company's decisions and fate, as Google shares change hands
New investors will fully share in Google's long term economic future but will have little ability to influence its strategic decisions through their voting rights
Our colleagues will be able to trust that they themselves and their labors of hard work, love and creativity will be well cared for by a company focused on stability and the long term
"
As an investor, you are placing a potentially risky long term bet on the team, especially Sergey and me. . Sergey and I are committed to Google for the long term.
I wanted to quote all that because these were the clear, well-publicized expectations we established for investors in 2004. While this decision was controversial at the time, we believe with hindsight it was absolutely the right thing to do. Eight years later, these statements are still remarkably accurate, and everyone involved has realized tremendous benefits as a result. Given Google's success, it's unsurprising that this type of dual-class governance structure is now somewhat standard among newer technology companies.
In our experience, success is more likely if you concentrate on the long term. Technology products often require significant investment over many years to fulfill their potential. For example, it took over three years just to ship our first Android handset, and then another three years on top of that before the operating system truly reached critical mass. These kinds of investments are not for the faint-hearted.
We have protected Google from outside pressures and the temptation to sacrifice future opportunities to meet short-term demands. Long-term product investments, like Chrome and YouTube, which now enjoy phenomenal usage, were made with a significant degree of independence.
We have a structure that prevents outside parties from taking over or unduly influencing our management decisions. However, day-to-day dilution from routine equity-based employee compensation and other possible dilution, such as stock-based acquisitions, will likely undermine this dual-class structure and our aspirations for Google over the very long term. We have put our hearts into Google and hope to do so for many more years to come. So we want to ensure that our corporate structure can sustain these efforts and our desire to improve the world.
Effectively a Stock Split: And a New Class of Stock
Today we announced plans to create a new class of non-voting capital stock, which will be listed on NASDAQ. These shares will be distributed via a stock dividend to all existing stockholders: the owner of each existing share will receive one new share of the non-voting stock, giving investors twice the number of shares they had before. It's effectively a two-for-one stock splitsomething many of our investors have long asked us for. These non-voting shares will be available for corporate uses, like equity-based employee compensation, that might otherwise dilute our governance structure.
We recognize that some people, particularly those who opposed this structure at the start, won't support this changeand we understand that other companies have been very successful with more traditional governance models. But after careful consideration with our board of directors, we have decided that maintaining this founder-led approach is in the best interests of Google, our shareholders and our users. Having the flexibility to use stock without diluting our structure will help ensure we are set up for success for decades to come.
In November 2009, Sergey and I published plans to sell a modest percentage of our overall stock, ending in 2015. We are currently halfway through those plans and we don't expect any changes to that, certainly not as the result of this new potential class. We both remain very much committed to Google for the long term.
It's important to bear in mind that this proposal will only have an effect on governance over the very long term. In fact, there's no particular urgency to make these changes nowwe don't have an unusually big acquisition planned, in case you were wondering. It's just that since we know what we want to do, there's no reason to delay the decision. Also note that there will be no immediate change in votes, because everyone will still have the same number. In addition, Eric, Sergey and I have all agreed to "stapling" arrangements so that, above set thresholds, if our economic interest in Google were to decline, our votes would as well. We also have provisions to ensure all shareholders are treated fairly from an economic perspective.
For more details on all of this, please see the postscript below from our Chief Legal Officer, David Drummond, and the preliminary proxy statement we will file with the SEC next week.
Conclusion
We have always managed Google for the long term, investing heavily in the big bets we hope will make a significant difference in the world. Some of these bets have been tremendous, funding our activities and generating significant gains for our shareholders. Others have been less successful. But the ability to take these kinds of risks has been crucial to Google's overall success and we aim to maintain this pioneering culture going forward.
The proposal we announced today is consistent with the governance philosophy we articulated when we took the company public, as well as the trend for newer technology companies to adopt strong dual-class structures. We believe that it will provide great competitive strengthinsulating Google from short-term pressures, whatever the source, for a long time to come, while also giving us more flexibility around equity grants.
Investors and others have always taken a big bet on us, the founders, and that bet will likely last longer as a result of these changes. We are honored that so many of you have put your trust in us and we recognize the tremendous responsibility that rests on our shoulders. We think this is a good thing because users rely on Google to produce and operate amazing technology products and to safely and responsibly store their data. This is our passion.
Sergey and I share a profound belief in the potential for technology to improve people's lives and we are enormously excited about what lies ahead. I couldn't write a better conclusion to this founder's letter than what we wrote in 2004 so here goes: "."
We have a strong commitment to our users worldwide, their communities, the web sites in our network, our advertisers, our investors, and of course our employees. Sergey and I, and the team will do our best to make Google a long term success and the world a better place
 
April 2012
Postscript from David Drummond, Chief Legal Officer, Google Inc.
This is not the usual yada yada so please read on.
Although we'll be filing a comprehensive proxy statement soon, I wanted to share some details about today's proposal to create a new class of stock and the process our board of directors followed to approve it.
As Larry and Sergey note above, the stock dividend we are announcing today will have the basic effect of a two-for-one stock split. Each holder of a share of Class A or Class B common stock will receive one share of the new non-voting Class C capital stock. So after the dividend, a stockholder who currently owns one Class A share with a single vote will continue to own that share plus one Class C share without a vote.
The Class A shares will continue to trade under the "GOOG" ticker symbol, while the Class C shares will trade under a different ticker symbol, so stockholders will be able to trade these shares, just as they can with Class A shares today. Except for voting rights, the Class C shares will have the same rights as the existing Class A and Class B shares. As is typically the case with stock splits, the Class C stock dividend will be tax-free.
One thing to keep in mind is that immediately after the Class C dividend, all stockholders, including Larry, Sergey and Eric, will retain the same voting interest they hold prior to the dividend. In addition, Larry, Sergey and Eric have agreed to subject their shares to a Transfer Restriction Agreement. This agreement will maintain the same link between their voting and economic interests that exists today, even if they sell some of their non-voting Class C shares. If the founders or Eric wish to sell or transfer their non-voting Class C shares, a "stapling" provision in the agreement requires them to either sell an equal number of Class B shares, or convert an equal number of Class B shares into Class A shares. No other stockholders will be subject to these restrictions upon the transfer or sale of their shares. The stapling requirement will terminate as to the founders when their collective ownership falls below a certain threshold, and as to Eric when his ownership falls below a certain threshold. Further details of the Transfer Restriction Agreement will be included in our proxy, but it's important to note that the stapling provision is designed so that, subject to the thresholds, the votes held by the founders and Eric will be reduced proportionally as their economic interest in the company declines.
Our board of directors carefully considered this proposal to create a new class of stock before reaching a decision. In January 2011, the board established a special committee, comprised of independent, non-management board members to consider a new class of stock, or other alternatives. This committee retained its own financial and legal advisers to assist with its deliberations, and met on numerous occasions over the 15 months that the special committee considered the proposal separately from the board. The committee recommended, and the board unanimously approved, today's proposal.
The proposal is subject to the approval of a majority of the voting power of Google's common stock, voting together as a single class, at our annual meeting on June 21, 2012. Given that Larry, Sergey, and Eric control the majority of voting power and support this proposal, we expect it to pass. The Board of Directors has not set a record date for the issuance of the Class C dividend and currently expects to set the date following the annual meeting.
Next week, we'll file a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC, which will contain further details regarding today's proposal.
David Drummond
Chief Legal Officer, Google Inc.
April 2012

Exhibit 99.4
Basics
How is this different from what we have today?
Currently, Googlers hold two types of stock: (1) Class A stock, which has one vote per share (this is the type of stock that most Googlers hold in GSUs and stock options), and (2) Class B stock, which has 10 votes per share (the vast majority of which is held by Larry, Sergey and Eric). Currently, the equity grants we make to employees (e.g. new hire and equity refresh grants) are based in Class A shares. If the proposal is approved, we'll have three types of stock  Class A stock and Class B stock, which retain their voting rights, and a new Class C stock, which would have no voting rights. In general, going forward, all employee equity award grants are expected to be issued in Class C stock.
What does this mean if I have unvested GSUs? What about the vesting schedule?
For each unvested Class A GSU you own, you would receive an additional unvested GSU that covers one share of Class C stock. So after the stock dividend, you would have one unvested GSU that covers one share of Class A stock and one unvested GSU that covers one share of Class C stock.
What about the vesting schedule?
Your vesting schedule would remain the same. When a GSU covering a Class A share vests, the corresponding GSU covering a Class C share would also vest.
 
What would happen to my vested, unexercised options?
We expect that for each vested, unexercised option you have, you will receive a vested unexercised Class C stock option. So, after the stock dividend for each Class A share, you would have one vested unexercised Class A option and one vested unexercised Class C option. The strike price of your Class A and Class C options would be adjusted, based on the original strike price of your Class A options (prior to the stock dividend) and the trading price of the ClassA and Class C stock following the issuance of the stock dividend. We will provide more detail on the calculation of the adjusted strike price before the dividend date.
 
How will this affect 2012 Equity Refresh planning and grants?
The 2012 Equity Refresh program is scheduled prior to the anticipated dividend distribution date. If you receive a Refresh grant, the GSUs and/or options granted to you as part of the Refresh grant will be adjusted to account for the Class C dividend as described above. Please make sure you accept your 2012 Refresh grant as soon as possible after it is made.
 
NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about our planned recapitalization and how it is expected to affect Googlers. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect our expectations and assumptions include, among others, the outcome of the stockholder vote to authorize the creation of the Class C stock, the timing of the Board's declaration of the stock dividend, the final allocation of the strike price under outstanding employee stock options between the Class A stock and the Class C stock to which option holders may be entitled and actual trading prices for the Class A and Class C stock following the stock dividend.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
This site may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the solicitation of proxies from stockholders for Google's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders ("2012 Annual Meeting"). Google intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and make available to the stockholders of Google of record on April 23, 2012
a proxy statement containing important information about the proposed creation of a new class of stock (the "Proposal") and certain other matters to be considered by the stockholders of Google at its 2012 Annual Meeting. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, GOOGLE'S STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE CAREFULLY AND IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSAL AND CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE 2012 ANNUAL MEETING.
Investors will be able to obtain the proxy statement and other relevant materials, when available, free of charge at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by Google, including the proxy statement when available, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, will be available free of charge from Google, at Google's website (http://www.google.com) or by writing to Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, Attn: Corporate Secretary.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Google and its directors, nominees, and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Google's stockholders with respect to the matters to be considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting, including the Proposal. Information regarding the names, affiliations, and direct or indirect interests (by security holdings or otherwise) of these persons will be described in the proxy statement to be filed with the SEC.
CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK PROPOSAL FAQs FOR GOOGLERS
Defined terms
Google Class A common stock which carries one vote for each share
Class A stock:
Google Class B common stock which carries ten votes for each share
Class B stock:
Google Class C capital stock which would not carry any voting rights
Class C stock:
General
What is happening?
Google is proposing to create a new class of non-voting stock (Class C), in addition to the current voting Class A and Class B stock. If the proposal is approved, it would be effected through the issuance of a stock dividend for all outstanding Google Class A and Class B shares. Each stockholder would receive a share of Class C stock for each share of Class A and Class B stock they hold as of a specified dividend record date. The record date will be announced once all required approvals have been obtained.
The fundamentals of our business are unchanged by this proposal. This is effectively a stock split  people who previously had one share would have two shares in what we expect would be very liquid markets. Class A shares would retain one stockholder vote per share. Class C shares would not have any voting rights. The Class A and Class C shares would be traded under different ticker symbols and their prices may vary over time.
See the examples below:
 
 
How is this different from what we have today?
Currently, Googlers hold two types of stock: (1) Class A stock, which has one vote per share (this is the type of stock that most Googlers hold in GSUs and stock options), and (2) Class B stock, which has 10 votes per share (the vast majority of which is held by Larry, Sergey and Eric). Currently, the equity grants we make to employees (e.g. new hire and equity refresh grants) are based in Class A shares. If the proposal is approved, we'll have three types of stock  Class A stock and Class B stock, which retain their voting rights, and a new Class C stock, which would have no voting rights. In general, going forward, all employee equity award grants are expected to be issued in Class C stock.
A dividend? Does this mean we're getting cash?
No, if the proposal is approved, the dividend will be issued in shares of Class C stock.
So how does this work?
If stockholders approve the proposal, this will effectively be a stock split  people who previously had one share will have two shares. The Class A stock and Class C stock would be traded under different ticker symbols and their prices may vary over time.
Why are we doing this?
Check out this year's Founders' Letter on the Investor Relations site for more information about this proposal.
Who came up with this proposal?
The Board established a Special Committee, comprised of independent, non-management Board members, in January 2011 to consider creating a new class of stock and other alternatives. This Committee retained its own financial and legal advisers to assist it in its deliberations and met on numerous occasions over the 15 months that the Special Committee considered the proposal separately from the Board. The Committee recommended, and the Board unanimously approved, this proposal.
Who has to approve this proposal?
The proposal to create a new Class C stock is subject to stockholder approval at our annual meeting in June. Given that Larry, Sergey, and Eric control the majority of voting power and support this proposal, we expect it to pass.
Since this new class doesn't carry any voting rights, what's to keep Larry/Sergey/Eric from selling all of their new non-voting (Class C) shares while maintaining voting control of the company?
As part of this proposal, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have agreed to a Transfer Restriction Agreement on their sales of the new Class C stock. See our site for more details.
Investor Relations
What is the timeline for the changes?
The proposal to create a new Class C stock must be approved by a stockholder vote at the annual stockholder meeting on June 21, 2012. Once that vote has occurred, we'll follow up with more information about the implementation timeline.
Who would this change apply to?
If approved, the proposal would apply to all stockholders who own Class A or Class B stock and all employees, consultants and directors who have unvested Google Stock Units (GSUs) and/or vested or unvested stock options as of a date to be set by the Board. If the proposal is approved, we intend that future equity grants after this date would be made in Class C shares.
What do I need to do?
Please log in to your brokerage account on either (MSSB) or and verify that you have accepted all of your existing grants. As long as you have done this, the administration of the stock dividend would happen automatically through your brokerage account.
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
Charles Schwab
How would this affect my voting rights on issues subject to a vote of stockholders?
If the proposal is approved, you will continue to have the same number of votes  one for each Google Class A share you own. You would not have any votes for any Google Class C shares that you own.
What can I share with my financial adviser?
You can share these FAQs, the and our proxy statement that will be filed with the SEC and will be available on .
Basics' section of the site
this site
Equity Grants & Programs
Does this mean we're changing our equity compensation philosophy?
No, we plan to maintain our existing targets for and the fundamental principles underlying our compensation philosophy will also not change. If the proposal is approved, we intend that future grants would be made using Class C stock.
equity compensation
How do I know what type of equity I have?
To see your current equity holdings, please visit your broker's website, either or , and log in to your account. If you have any questions about your equity, please email stock-admin@google.com.
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
Charles Schwab
What would happen to shares I own (i.e., GSUs that have vested)?
For each vested GSU you own, which is a Class A share, you would receive a Class C share. So, after the stock dividend, you would have one share of Class A stock and one share of Class C stock.
What does this mean if I have unvested GSUs?
For each unvested Class A GSU you own, you would receive an additional unvested GSU that covers one share of Class C stock. So after the stock dividend, you would have one unvested GSU that covers one share of Class A stock and one unvested GSU that covers one share of Class C stock.
What about the vesting schedule?
Your vesting schedule would remain the same. When a GSU covering a Class A share vests, the corresponding GSU covering a Class C share would also vest.
Would there be any changes to how we can trade these new Class C shares?
No, as long as the is open, you would be able to trade these new shares normally. Class A and Class C shares would each have their own ticker symbols and could be traded independently.
trading window
I haven't accepted my grants yet. How will this impact me?
Please accept your existing grants as soon as possible. Here's how to accept your grants for or . If you're unable to accept your grants, please contact .
MSSB
Charles Schwab
stock-admin@google.com
What would happen to my vested, unexercised options?
We expect that for each vested, unexercised option you have, you will receive a vested unexercised Class C stock option. So, after the stock dividend for each Class A share, you would have one vested unexercised Class A option and one vested unexercised Class C option. The strike price of your Class A and Class C options would be adjusted, based on the original strike price of your Class A options (prior to the stock dividend) and the trading price of the Class A and Class C stock following the issuance of the stock dividend. We will provide more detail on the calculation of the adjusted strike price before the dividend date.
What would happen to my unvested options? What about the vesting schedule?
We expect that for each unvested option you have, you will receive an unvested Class C option. So, after the stock dividend for a Class A option, you would have one unvested Class A option and one unvested Class C option. The strike price of your Class A and Class C options would be adjusted based on the original strike price of your Class A options (prior to the stock dividend) and the trading price of the Class A and Class C stock following the issuance of the stock dividend. We will provide more detail on the calculation of the adjusted strike price before the dividend date.
Your vesting schedule would remain the same  when a Class A option vests, the corresponding Class C option would also vest.
What if I moved my vested shares to another broker? How would the dividend work for me?
The dividend would happen automatically, and your new Class C shares would be deposited into your brokerage account.
What if I hold shares directly with Computershare? How would the dividend work for me?
The dividend would happen automatically, and your new Class C shares would be deposited into your Computershare account.
I currently participate in the AutoSale program. How does this impact me?
If the proposal is approved, in addition to selling your Class A shares as your GSUs vest, you will be permitted to sign-up during the annual enrollment period later this year to sell your Class C shares through this program as your GSUs vest during 2013.
I want to participate in the AutoSale program. How will that work?
If the proposal is approved, you will be permitted to sign-up for the AutoSale program during the annual enrollment period later this year. You may elect to sell both your Class A and Class C shares (received as your GSUs vest in 2013) through this program.
I participate in a 10b5-1 trading plan. How does this impact me?
If the proposal is approved, you will be given the opportunity to amend your 10b5-1 trading plan if you would like to sell your Class C shares in addition to your Class A shares once the dividend has been declared.
Will my options continue to be eligible for the Transferable Stock Option (TSO) Program?
We expect that all of your outstanding Class A options and Class C options (when issued) will be eligible for the TSO program.
How will this affect 2012 Equity Refresh planning and grants?
The 2012 Equity Refresh program is scheduled prior to the anticipated dividend distribution date. If you receive a Refresh grant, the GSUs and/or options granted to you as part of the Refresh grant will be adjusted to account for the Class C dividend as described above. Please make sure you accept your 2012 Refresh grant as soon as possible after it is made.
 
How would this affect ongoing equity grants?
In general, going forward, all employee equity award grants are expected to be made using Class C stock.
Brokerage Accounts
What would this look like in my Charles Schwab or Morgan Stanley Smith Barney account?
Once this proposal has been approved, when you log into your account on your broker's website (either or ), you will see both your Class A and Class C shares in aggregate on your account home page.
MSSB
Charles Schwab
Do I need to do anything?
Please log in to your brokerage account on either (MSSB) or and verify that you have accepted all of your existing grants. As long as you have done this, the administration of the stock dividend would happen automatically through your brokerage account.
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
Charles Schwab
Taxes
I live and work in the United States. How would this affect my taxes?
For US taxpayers the stock dividend should not be taxable for Federal Income tax purposes, but you should discuss the dividend with your financial adviser if you have any questions about your particular tax situation.
I live in [insert country name here]. Anything different for my country?
We do not expect this stock dividend to be a taxable event in most countries, but are in the process of confirming this for each country. We will update you with more country-specific information as it becomes available. You should discuss the dividend with your financial adviser if you have any questions about your particular tax situation.
More Questions
I still have questions relating to my personal situation. Where should I go?
The Stock Admin team is available for questions relating to the administration of your GSUs, options and stock. You can attend one of the Stock Admin team's or email .
office hours
them
U.S. CIRCULAR 230 NOTICE
Any U.S. federal tax advice included in this communication was not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding U.S. federal tax penalties. You should consult your own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences of the stock dividend that apply to your particular circumstances.
NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about our planned recapitalization and how it is expected to affect Googlers. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect our expectations and assumptions include, among others, the outcome of the stockholder vote to authorize the creation of the Class C stock, the timing of the Board's declaration of the stock dividend, the final allocation of the strike price under outstanding employee stock options between the Class A stock and the Class C stock to which option holders may be entitled and actual trading prices for the Class A and Class C stock following the stock dividend.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
This site may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the solicitation of proxies from stockholders for Google's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders ("2012 Annual Meeting"). Google intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and make available to the stockholders of Google of record on April 23, 2012 a proxy statement containing important information about the proposed creation of a new class of stock (the "Proposal") and certain other matters to be considered by the stockholders of Google at its 2012 Annual Meeting. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, GOOGLE'S STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE CAREFULLY AND IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSAL AND CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE 2012 ANNUAL MEETING.
Investors will be able to obtain the proxy statement and other relevant materials, when available, free of charge at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by Google, including the proxy statement when available, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, will be available free of charge from Google, at Google's website (http://www.google.com) or by writing to Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, Attn: Corporate Secretary.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Google and its directors, nominees, and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Google's stockholders with respect to the matters to be considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting, including the Proposal. Information regarding the names, affiliations, and direct or indirect interests (by security holdings or otherwise) of these persons will be described in the proxy statement to be filed with the SEC.


