FILE:GOOG/GOOG-8K-20120430171944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2012, the members of the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Google Inc. ("") approved a compensation arrangement for Nikesh Arora, Google's Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. The terms of the compensation arrangement are set forth in an agreement that was executed by Google and Nikesh on April 27, 2012 (the ""). Pursuant to the Agreement, certain awards of stock options and Google Stock Units previously granted to Nikesh in April 2012, which were scheduled to vest on April 25, 2015 (the ""), were cancelled effective April 27, 2012. In exchange for the Cancelled Awards, Nikesh will receive a cash payment of $4.7 million (the ""). As part of the Agreement, Nikesh will also receive a discretionary cash bonus payment of $3.3 million (together with the Cancellation Payment, the ""). The Cash Awards will be paid to Nikesh on or about May 11, 2012 (the ""). If Nikesh's employment with Google terminates for any reason after the Payment Date and prior to April 25, 2015, then Nikesh will be required to repay to Google the full value of the Cash Awards either before or after applicable tax withholdings, depending on when the termination occurs. The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Google
Agreement
Cancelled Awards
Cancellation Payment
Cash Awards
Payment Date
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.01
This agreement is made and entered into effective as of April 27, 2012 (the ""), by and between Nikesh Arora ("") and Google Inc. and its subsidiaries ("").
Effective Date
Nikesh
Google
In consideration of the mutual promises described in this agreement, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Nikesh acknowledges that he has read and understands this agreement, is fully aware of its legal effect, has not relied on any representations or promises made by Google other than those in this agreement, and has entered into this agreement freely based on his own judgment, and each of the parties has executed this agreement as of the Effective Date.
Google Inc.
 
 
 


