Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Cream. Other raw materials used by the Dairy Group, such as juice concentrates and sweeteners, in addition to packaging supplies, are generally available from numerous suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these materials. Certain of our Dairy Groups raw materials and packaging supplies are purchased under long term contracts in order to obtain lower costs. The prices of our raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials and packaging supplies. The dairy industry is a mature industry which has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques, the establishment of captive dairy manufacturing operations by some grocery retailers and declining demand for fluid milk products. Since 1990, the dairy industry has experienced significant consolidation led in part by us. Consolidation has tended to lower costs and raise efficiency. However, consumption of traditional fluid dairy products has continued to decline. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, per capita consumption of fluid milk and cream decreased by over 10% from 1990 to the end of 2002, although total consumption has remained relatively flat over the same period due to population increases. Therefore, sales growth across the industry generally remains modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. Many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and branding, as well as reducing costs, in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. The dairy industry is highly competitive. Our Dairy Group has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service and quality, while competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. For more financial information about our Dairy Groups recent operations, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Branded Products Group Our Branded Products Group consists of three distinct operating divisions: White Wave, Horizon Organic and the National Brand Group. Our Branded Products Group develops, markets and sells our portfolio of strategic brands, including Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic dairy products, juices and infant formula, International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, The Organic Cow of Vermont organic milk, Rachels OrganicTM organic dairy products (sold in the U.K.), Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverages and Deans dips. The Branded Products Group also sells certain branded products that we do not include in our portfolio of strategic brands. Prior to 2004, we had a Morningstar Foods division that manufactured, marketed and sold all of our strategic brands except for our soy products, and also manufactured and sold private label dairy products. Approximately half of Morningstar Foods 2003 sales consisted of private label dairy products. In mid 2003, we began the process of reorganizing the operations of our Morningstar Foods division, as part of a company wide effort to sharpen our focus on our strategic brands and to maximize our manufacturing efficiency. Effective January 1, 2004, we completed the shift of all of Morningstar Foods private label sales and all of its manufacturing operations to the Dairy Group. We also created the National Brand Group and assigned it the sole responsibility of developing, marketing and selling the former Morningstar Foods strategic brands and certain other branded products. These changes have resulted in a new segment reporting structure, which will commence in the first quarter of 2004. 3 Table of Contents We acquired Horizon Organic on January 2, 2004. Its financial results will be included in our new Branded Products Group segment beginning with the first quarter of 2004. The former Morningstar/ White Wave segment had sales of $1.11 billion in 2003, or approximately 12% of our consolidated 2003 sales. 2003 sales to Morningstar/ White Waves largest customer, Wal Mart (including its subsidiaries), represented 12.8% of Morningstar/ White Waves 2003 sales. The following chart graphically depicts our former Morningstar/ White Wave segments 2003 sales by product category. (1) Includes tofu, tempeh and seitan sold under the White Wave brand; Silk cultured soy; Morningstar Foods frozen pre whipped topping and frozen creamer operations sold in July 2003; Mocha Mix non dairy liquid coffee creamer; Second Nature egg substitute and Naturally Yours sour cream. For more information about our former Morningstar/ White Wave segment, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. White Wave White Wave markets and sells Silk soymilk, the leading brand of soymilk in the United States; Sun Soy soymilk; Silk cultured soy products; and White Wave branded tofu, tempeh and seitan to a variety of customers across the United States and in several foreign countries, including mass merchandisers, club stores, grocery stores, natural foods stores, convenience stores and foodservice outlets, using its internal sales force and independent brokers. Most of White Waves customers purchase products from White Wave either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Soymilk and cultured soy are manufactured by blending soymilk concentrate extracted from soybeans with certain proprietary ingredients. White Wave produces soymilk concentrate at three facilities that we own or lease. Due to recent rapid growth in Silk sales, all of White Waves extraction facilities were operating at full capacity in 2003. Therefore, in order to meet demand, White Wave purchased approximately 48% of its 2003 soymilk concentrate requirements from third parties. In 2004, we intend to install additional extraction operations in certain of our company owned plants. Silk products and Sun Soy are processed into finished products at four company owned plants across the country. White Wave also contracts with various third parties to co pack Silk products at their plants. White Waves tofu, tempeh and seitan products are produced at White Waves owned facility in Boulder, Colorado. Most of White Waves products are delivered by common carrier to customer warehouses, although some of its products are distributed through our Dairy Groups DSD system. The primary raw materials used by White Wave are organic soybeans and organic soybean concentrate. We purchase organic soybeans and organic soybean concentrate from a number of suppliers. Organic soybeans and other raw materials used by White Wave, such as organic sugar, flavorings and packaging materials, are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these materials. Certain of White Waves raw materials are purchased under contracts in order to guarantee supply and to obtain lower costs. The prices of White Waves raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. 4 Table of Contents White Wave has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, White Wave pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many different factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy. White Wave has a leading position in the soy foods category, and particularly the soymilk segment. However, soy foods and soymilk compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales, including traditional milk products. Horizon Horizon Organic markets and sells a full line of branded and private label organic dairy products and juices to retailers across the United States and in the U.K. using its internal sales force and independent brokers. Horizon Organics product offerings include milk, cheese, yogurt, butter, sour cream, cottage cheese, pudding, fruit jells, half and half, whipping cream, cream cheese, fruit juice and infant formula. All of Horizon Organics products are certified organic products, as defined by the USDAs Organic Regulations. Approximately 50% of Horizon Organics product offerings are sold under the Horizon Organic brand. Another 6% are sold under our proprietary The Organic Cow of Vermont brand, 25% are sold in the U.K. under our Rachels Organic brand and 19% are sold under private labels. We have licensed the Horizon Organic brand to third parties for use on eggs in the United States and on organic dairy products in Japan. The majority of Horizon Organics fluid dairy products are pasteurized at ultra high temperatures (UHT) and, therefore, they have longer shelf lives than conventional fluid dairy products. Horizon Organic sells most of its products either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Sales of Horizon Organics products are slightly seasonal, with sales tending to be higher in the fourth quarter. In the United States, Horizon Organic outsources the processing of all of its products to third party processors, including our Dairy Group. In 2003, our Dairy Group manufactured approximately 27% of Horizon Organics fluid dairy products. In the U.K., we outsource all production except for organic yogurt, which is processed at our company owned plant in Aberystwyth, Wales. The majority of Horizon Organics products are delivered by common carrier to customer warehouses, although some are distributed through third party distributors or through our Dairy Groups DSD system. The primary raw material used by Horizon Organic is organic raw milk. Organic raw milk is not readily available and the growth of our business will depend on us being able to procure sufficient quantities of organic raw milk in time to meet our needs. We currently purchase organic raw milk from a network of over 200 producers across the United States. We generally enter into supply agreements with dairy farmers, with typical terms of one to two years, that obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities. The minimum price of raw milk is regulated in most parts of the U.S. by the federal government and some states. The prices we pay for organic raw milk, however, generally far exceed the statutory minimums. We also produce certain of our own organic raw milk needs in the U.S. at two organic farms that we own and operate. In the U.K. we source all of our organic raw milk from two farmers cooperatives and three independent farmers pursuant to formal supply agreements. Other raw materials used by Horizon Organic, such as organic juice concentrate and sweeteners, in addition to packaging supplies, are generally readily available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these materials. Certain of these materials are purchased under long term contracts in order to obtain lower costs. The prices of Horizon Organics raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. Horizon Organic has numerous competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the products compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, Horizon Organic pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many different factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for organic foods has 5 Table of Contents grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of organic foods. Horizon Organic has a leading position in the organic foods industry. However, organic foods compete with many other foods and beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. National Brand Group Our National Brand Group markets and sells the following brands included in our strategic brand portfolio: International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverage and Deans dips. Other branded products sold by the National Brand Group include Mocha Mix non dairy liquid coffee creamer, Naturally YoursTM sour cream and Second Nature egg substitute. We license the Hersheys, Land OLakes and Folgers names from third parties for use on certain of our products. All of the National Brand Groups products are manufactured by the Dairy Group. The National Brand Group sells its products to a wide variety of retail outlets, foodservice customers and distributors across the United States and in a number of foreign countries through its internal sales force and independent brokers. Most of the National Brand Groups customers purchase products from the National Brand Group either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Sales of the National Brand Groups products are seasonal, with sales tending to be higher in the fourth quarter. Most of the National Brand Groups products are delivered by common carrier, although some of its products are distributed through our Dairy Groups DSD system. The National Brand Group competes in a number of different product markets and competition is intense in all of its markets. For most of its products, competition to obtain shelf space with retailers is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, the National Brand Group pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many different factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. All of the National Brand Groups products compete with other food products and beverages for consumer sales. Specialty Foods Group Our Specialty Foods Group is one of the nations leading pickle processors, and the largest manufacturer and seller of powdered non dairy coffee creamers in the United States. The Specialty Foods Group also manufactures and sells a variety of specialty foods, such as powdered ingredients, aseptic sauces and nutritional beverages. The Specialty Foods Groups sales totaled $684.2 million in 2003, or approximately 7.4% of our consolidated 2003 sales. The following charts graphically depict the Specialty Foods Groups 2003 sales by product category and channel, and indicate the percentage of private label sales versus branded sales: (1) Approximately 67% of the Specialty Foods Groups pickle, relish and pepper products are sold under customer brands, with the remaining 33% sold under our proprietary brands including Atkins, Cates, Heifetz, Nalleys, SteinfeldTM, Farmans, Paramount, Peter Piper, Roddenberry and Schwartz. Branded products are sold to retailers and private label products are sold to retailers, foodservice customers and in bulk to other food processors. 6 Table of Contents (2) In addition to powdered coffee creamers, the Specialty Foods Group also sells shortening powders and other high fat powder formulas used in baking, beverage mixes, gravies and sauces, and premium and low fat powdered products. In 2003, all of the Specialty Foods Groups powdered products were sold under customer brands to retailers, distributors and in bulk to other food companies for use as ingredients in their products. (3) Aseptic products are sterilized using a process which allows storage for prolonged periods without refrigeration. Our Specialty Foods Group manufactures aseptic cheese sauces, puddings and nutritional beverages. Our cheese sauces and puddings are sold primarily under private labels to distributors. Aseptic nutritional beverages (which are in the meal supplement, weight loss/ gain and sports categories) are sold entirely under private labels to retailers and distributors. (4) Includes shrimp, seafood, tarter, horseradish, chili, sweet and sour sauces and syrups sold to retail grocers in the Eastern, Midwestern and Southern United States. These products are sold under the Bennetts and Hoffman House brand names. (5) Includes mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores and grocery stores. The Specialty Foods Groups products are delivered to customers stores and warehouses primarily by common carrier. The Specialty Foods Group sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. Most of the Specialty Foods Groups customers purchase products from the Specialty Foods Group either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Sales of the Specialty Foods Groups pickle products are generally higher in the second and fourth quarters and sales of its powdered products are generally higher in the fourth quarter. Our Specialty Foods Group uses a wide variety of raw materials. The main raw material used by the Specialty Foods Group is cucumbers. The Specialty Foods Group purchases cucumbers under seasonal grower contracts with a variety of growers. We supply seeds and advise growers regarding planting techniques. We also monitor and arrange for the control of insects, direct the harvest and, for some crops, provide automated harvesting services. Other raw materials used by the Specialty Foods Group, such as corn syrup, soy bean oil and casein, in addition to packaging materials, are generally available from numerous suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these materials. Certain of the Specialty Foods Groups raw materials and packaging supplies are purchased under long term contracts in order to guarantee supply and to obtain lower costs. The prices of the Specialty Foods Groups raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. The Specialty Foods Group produces its products in 11 plants located across the United States. For more information about the Specialty Foods Groups manufacturing plants, see Item 2. Properties. The Specialty Foods Group has several competitors in each of its product markets. For most of Specialty Foods Groups products, competition to obtain shelf space with retailers is based on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In rare cases, the Specialty Foods Group pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular company branded product. Competition for consumer sales is based on brand recognition, price, taste preferences, and quality. The Specialty Foods Group also competes with other food and nutritional products for consumer sales. For more information about our Specialty Foods Group segment, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. International Group Our International Group manufactures, markets and sells private label and branded milk, butter, cream and cheese through its internal sales force to retailers and distributors across Spain and Portugal. The International Groups sales totaled $244.9 million in 2003, or approximately 2.6% of our consolidated sales. 7 Table of Contents The following charts graphically depict the International Groups 2003 sales by product category and channel, and indicate the percentage of private label sales versus company branded sales. (1) All of our International Groups milk and cream are pasteurized at ultra high temperatures, which is referred to in the industry as UHT. (2) Our International Groups largest customers are Distribucin Internacional de Alimentacin S.A., Lidl Supermercados S.A. and Eroski Sociedad Cooperativa, which accounted for approximately 14%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of the International Groups 2003 sales. (3) Including our proprietary Celta and Campobueno brands. Our International Group manufactures its products in four plants located in the Galicia and Cantabria regions of Spain. For more information about our International Group plants, see Item 2. Properties. We are currently building a fifth plant, located in Alpiarca, Portugal, which we expect to commence operations in the third quarter of 2004. Our International Group operates its business primarily from its headquarters located in Pontedeume, Galicia. The long shelf life of our International Groups UHT fluid milk products allows delivery by common carrier. Most of the International Groups customers purchase its products either by purchase order or by contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Our International Groups sales are slightly seasonal, with sales tending to be lower in the third quarter. The primary raw material used by our International Group is raw milk. We purchase our raw milk from farmers cooperatives and other intermediaries pursuant to formal and informal contractual arrangements. Raw milk production volume is regulated by European Union quotas which sometimes limit the availability of raw milk to processors. The price of raw milk is defined solely by supply and demand and can fluctuate widely. Our International Group purchases its packaging materials from two leading suppliers. Packaging materials represent a significant portion of our International Groups raw material costs and are purchased under long term contracts in order to obtain lower costs. The Iberian fluid dairy market, which includes Spain and Portugal, is characterized by relatively high per capita consumption and the UHT brick pack format dominates the industry. The combination of these factors makes the Iberian region one of the largest UHT markets in the world. The Iberian fluid dairy market has been characterized over the past 20 years by slow growth in the core products and faster growth for value added products such as nutritionally enriched milks. The Iberian fluid dairy industry is highly competitive, with leading companies investing heavily in innovation and branding. The industry has undergone significant consolidation in the past 5 to 10 years leading to the emergence of several national brands, including our Celta brand. Our International Group competes with all the leading fluid dairy processors operating in the Iberian region. Competition between dairy processors for private label business has intensified recently as a result of retailer consolidation, and is based primarily on price, service and quality. Competition for branded sales to consumers is based on a number of factors, including brand recognition, price and quality. 8 Table of Contents Current Business Strategy We are focused on consistently creating and maximizing shareholder value primarily through the following strategies: Investing in Our Brands We believe that investing in our brands is key to growing our sales and our profitability. In 2004, we intend to spend approximately $210 million marketing the strategic brands of our Branded Products Group, with an emphasis on our largest and most successful brands: Silk, Horizon Organic, International Delight and Hersheys. In addition, during 2004 we expect to spend approximately $50 million marketing our regional Dairy Group brands. Rationalizing Our Operations An important part of our strategy is reducing costs and ensuring that our resources are properly aligned with our strategic direction. Therefore, in 2004 we intend to continue (i) rationalizing production between manufacturing facilities and realigning Dairy Group delivery routes, (ii) closing facilities with overlapping markets or excess capacity, and (iii) eliminating duplicative administrative functions. Investing Our Cash Our company generates a significant amount of cash flow from operating activities. In addition to investing in our brands, we intend to invest our capital where we believe returns are greatest, which could include acquisitions in our core lines of business, repurchases of our stock and or reductions of indebtedness. Developments Since January 1, 2003 Acquisitions and Divestitures On January 26, 2004, our Dairy Group acquired Ross Swiss Dairies, a dairy distributor based in Los Angeles, California, which had net sales of approximately $120 million in 2003. As a result of this acquisition, we have increased the distribution capability of our Dairy Group in southern California, allowing us to better serve our customers. Ross Swiss Dairies has historically purchased a significant portion of its products from other processors. We intend to shift the manufacturing of substantially all of Ross Swiss Dairies product needs into our southern California plants in 2004. We paid approximately $20 million for the purchase of Ross Swiss Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On January 2, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the 87% of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation that we did not already own. Horizon Organic Holding Corporation had sales of approximately $214 million during 2003. We already owned approximately 13% of the outstanding common stock of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation as a result of investments made in 1998. All of Horizon Organics manufacturing has historically been done by third party co packers, including us. During 2003, we produced approximately 27% of Horizon Organics dairy products. We also distributed Horizon Organics products in several parts of the country. Over time, we intend to increase the percentage of Horizon Organics manufacturing that is done in our plants, which we believe will lower its manufacturing costs. We also believe that we can achieve greater distribution for Horizon Organics products by leveraging our Dairy Groups DSD system. Horizon Organic is the leading branded organic foods company in the United States. Because organic foods are gaining popularity with consumers and because Horizon Organics products offer consumers an alternative to our Dairy Groups traditional dairy products, we believe Horizon Organic is an important addition to our portfolio of strategic brands. The purchase price for the 87% of Horizon Organic that we did not already own was approximately $216 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility and our receivables backed facility. We also repaid approximately $40 million of borrowings under Horizon Organics former credit facilities. Beginning with the first quarter of 2004, Horizon Organics financial results will be reported in our Branded Products Group segment. 9 Table of Contents On December 24, 2003, our Specialty Foods Group acquired the Cremora branded non dairy powdered coffee creamer business from Eagle Family Foods. Prior to the acquisition, we had been producing Cremora creamers for Eagle Family Foods pursuant to a co packing arrangement, which generated approximately $8.9 million of net sales for us in 2003. Cremora is the first branded powdered coffee creamer offering for Specialty Foods. The Cremora brand had sales of approximately $15.8 million for the 12 months ended June 30, 2003. We purchased the Cremora business from Eagle Family Foods for a purchase price of approximately $12.6 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility. On October 15, 2003, we acquired Kohler Mix Specialties, Inc., the dairy products division of Michael Foods, Inc. Kohlers product line consists primarily of private label ultra pasteurized ice cream mixes, creamers and creams, sold primarily in the foodservice channel. From the time of the acquisition through the end of 2003, Kohler was part of our former Morningstar/White Wave segment. Effective January 1, 2004, Kohler became part of our Dairy Group, along with all of Morningstar Foods other private label and manufacturing operations. The acquisition of Kohler increased the Dairy Groups UHT processing capacity, which we need to meet the expanding needs of our Branded Products Group. Kohler had net sales of approximately $187.5 million for the 12 months ended August 31, 2003 and has three plants located in White Bear Lake, Minnesota, Sulphur Springs, Texas and Newington, Connecticut. We paid approximately $158.6 million for the purchase of Kohler, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On July 31, 2003, our Morningstar/White Wave segment sold its frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations for cash proceeds of approximately $90 million, all of which was used to reduce indebtedness. The divested operations were our only operations with frozen warehouse distribution, and we sold it in order to more closely align our financial and management resources with our strategic direction and expertise. On June 9, 2003, our Dairy Group acquired Melody Farms, LLC. Melody Farms, which is now a part of the Midwest region of our Dairy Group, is a regional dairy processor based in Livonia, Michigan, that produces fluid dairy and ice cream products from two plants in Michigan. Our acquisition of Melody Farms expands our distribution reach and allows us to better serve our customers in the Michigan area. Melody Farms had net sales of approximately $116 million during the 12 months ended March 31, 2003. We paid approximately $52.7 million for Melody Farms, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. Organizational Changes In mid 2003, we began the process of reorganizing the operations of our Morningstar Foods division as part of a company wide effort to sharpen our focus on our strategic brands and to maximize our manufacturing efficiency. We shifted all of Morningstar Foods private label sales and all of its manufacturing operations to our Dairy Group. We then created the National Brand Group and assigned it the sole responsibility of developing, marketing and selling Morningstar Foods nationally branded products. The reorganization was completed effective January 1, 2004. The National Brand Group is part of our Branded Products Group segment. Rationalization Activities As part of our overall integration and cost reduction strategy, we closed or announced the closure of five Dairy Group facilities in 2003 and reduced (or intend to reduce) our workforce accordingly. We also restructured certain administrative functions in the Northeast and Midwest regions of our Dairy Group, in addition to Morningstar Foods. We incurred expenses of approximately $11.8 million during 2003 related to these plant closings and reorganizations. These charges included the following costs: Workforce reduction costs, which were charged against our earnings in the period that the plan was established in detail and employee severance and benefits had been appropriately communicated; 10 Table of Contents Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare facilities for re sale or closure; Costs incurred after shutdown such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities no longer used in operations. The impairments related primarily to owned building, land and equipment at the facilities that were written down to their estimated fair value and sold or marketed for sale. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Branded Product Initiatives Our nationally branded products were a significant focus for us in 2003. We spent approximately $188 million marketing and gaining additional distribution for our strategic brands during 2003. Unit sales of our strategic brands increased by more than 27% in 2003, on a pro forma basis as if White Wave had been owned for all of 2002. Some highlights of our 2003 branded product initiatives included the following: International Delight Coffee Creamers In the first half of 2003, we launched the national rollout of International Delight in its newly designed plastic pint bottle, and in the second half of the year we introduced International Delight in a quart sized plastic bottle. In the first quarter of 2004, we introduced two flavors of International Delight with a low carb formulation. Silk Soymilk In the first quarter of 2003, we announced that White Wave had entered into a three year agreement with Starbucks pursuant to which, beginning in the summer of 2003, Silk became the exclusive soymilk used in handcrafted beverages in all Starbucks locations throughout the United States. Single serve bottles of Silk are also sold separately in certain Starbucks locations. In the fourth quarter of 2003, White Wave launched five new Silk product offerings, including 128 ounce plain, vanilla, very vanilla, unsweetened and enhanced. Maries Dressings At the end of the first quarter of 2003, Maries dressings were re launched nationally in a newly redesigned oval jar. Historically, Maries dressings were sold in different packages and pack sizes in different parts of the country because rights to the brand had been licensed to another processor in the western United States. In 2002, we purchased all outstanding rights to the Maries brand and became the sole owner, marketer and distributor of the brand. In addition to the 2003 packaging change, the brand was supported with increased marketing and focus on new distribution. Hersheys A strawberry milkshake was added to the Hersheys product line in 2003. Stock Split On May 7, 2003, our Board of Directors declared a three for two split of our common stock, which entitled shareholders of record on May 23, 2003 to receive an additional half share of common stock for each share held on that date. The new shares were issued after the market closed on June 9, 2003. All of the share numbers in this Annual Report on Form 10 K have been adjusted for all periods to reflect the stock split. TIPES In three separate transactions during the second quarter of 2003, we called for redemption all of our trust issued preferred securities (TIPES). We originally issued $600 million of TIPES in a private placement in 1998. The TIPES were convertible at the option of the holders, at any time, into shares of our common stock and were redeemable, at our option, at any time at specified premiums. In response to our three announced redemption transactions, holders of more than 99% of all outstanding TIPES elected to convert their TIPES into shares of our common stock rather than receive the cash redemption price. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2003, we issued a total of approximately 23 million shares of common stock to holders of TIPES in lieu of cash redemption payments, and we paid approximately $2.4 million in cash to holders who did not elect to convert. There are no remaining TIPES outstanding. 11 Table of Contents Stock Buyback During 2003, we spent approximately $185.5 million to repurchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock for an average purchase price of $27.82 per share. At March 10, 2004, approximately $114.6 million remained available under our current authorization. Amendment to Credit Facility During the third quarter of 2003, we amended our senior credit facility to (1) lower the interest rates, (2) increase the available amount of the revolver from $800 million to $1 billion, (3) increase the principal balance of the Tranche A term loan from $765 million to $1 billion, (4) lower the principal balance of the Tranche B term loan (which bears a higher interest rate than the Tranche A term loan) from $990 million to $750 million, (5) fix the leverage ratio requirement at 3.75 to 1, and (6) make certain other financial covenant changes. In December 2003, we amended our senior credit facility again to (1) provide for borrowings in euros up to $200 million under the existing $1 billion revolver, and (2) amend the leverage ratio to 4 to 1 through March 31, 2005. Employees As of December 31, 2003 we had the following employees: No. of % of Employees Total Dairy Group 22,624 82.4 % Morningstar/ White Wave 2,541 9.3 Specialty Foods Group 1,880 6.8 International 255 0.9 Corporate 166 0.6 Total 27,466 100.0 % 9,360, or approximately 41%, of the Dairy Groups employees and 970, or approximately 52%, of the Specialty Foods Groups employees are members of labor unions. Government Regulation Public Health As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations, specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell, and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorize regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are also subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. 12 Table of Contents We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe that our facilities and manufacturing practices comply with all material government regulations. Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Ammonia, a refrigerant used extensively in our operations, is considered an extremely hazardous substance pursuant to U.S. federal environmental laws due to its toxicity. Also, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels permitted under local regulations. Because of this, certain of our subsidiaries are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct waste water pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain above ground or underground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. These tanks are periodically inspected to determine compliance with applicable regulations. We are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to maintain compliance of these tanks. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not expect environmental compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position in the foreseeable future. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk contains primarily raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. The federal government establishes separate minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat, and we pay our suppliers separate prices for the raw skim milk and butterfat based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices are calculated by economic formula based on supply and demand and vary depending on the processors geographic location and the type of product manufactured using the raw product. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for butterfat and raw skim milk that is processed into milk) and Class II raw skim milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw skim milk that is processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government by the 23rd day of the immediately preceding month. Class II butterfat prices for each month are announced on or before the fifth day after the end of that month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. A few states also have retail pricing requirements. In Spain, the government has established a quota system regulating the amount of milk that can be sold by individual farmers and farm cooperatives, which affects the prices we pay for raw milk. Brief History We commenced operations in 1988 through a predecessor entity. Our original operations consisted solely of a packaged ice business. 13 Table of Contents We entered the dairy business in December 1993 when we acquired Suiza Dairy Corporation, a regional dairy processor located in Puerto Rico. We have grown our dairy business rapidly since then, primarily through a focused acquisition strategy. In April 1996, we completed our initial public offering (under our former name: Suiza Foods Corporation). Initially our common stock was traded in the Nasdaq National Market. In January 1997, we completed a second public offering. Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in March 1997 under the symbol SZA. Our common stock continues to trade on the New York Stock Exchange, now under the symbol DF. In August 1997, we acquired Franklin Plastics, Inc., a company engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling plastic containers, in connection with our acquisition of a dairy company related to Franklin Plastics. We then began acquiring other companies in the plastic container business. In November 1997, we bought Morningstar Foods Inc., which greatly expanded our branded and value added product lines. See Segments and Operating Divisions Branded Products Group for more information about Morningstar Foods. As a result of our acquisition strategy in the packaged ice industry, by 1998 we had become one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of packaged ice in the United States. In April 1998, however, we sold our packaged ice operations in order to focus our resources on our dairy and packaging operations. In 1999, we made a decision to further focus our resources on our core dairy business. In July 1999, therefore, we sold all of our U.S. plastic packaging operations to Consolidated Container Company in exchange for cash and a minority interest in the purchaser, and in March and May 2000, we sold our European packaging operations. Except for our minority interest in Consolidated Container Company, we no longer have any investments in the packaging industry. Effective January 1, 2000, we completed the acquisition of Southern Foods Group, L.P., the third largest dairy processor in the United States at the time of the acquisition. As a result of that transaction, we greatly expanded the geographic reach of our Dairy Group and became the largest fluid dairy company in the United States. See Segments and Operating Divisions Dairy Group for more information about our Dairy Group. The Southern Foods transaction was completed through a joint venture with Dairy Farmers of America (DFA), the nations largest dairy farmers cooperative, pursuant to which DFA obtained a 33.8% interest in our Dairy Group. In February 2000, we entered the European dairy industry by purchasing Leche Celta, one of the largest dairy processors in Spain. See Segments and Operating Divisions International Group for more information about our international operations. On December 21, 2001, we acquired Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean). As a result, we are now one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. In connection with that transaction, we purchased the 33.8% minority interest in our Dairy Group held by DFA in exchange for cash, the operations of 11 plants that we were required to divest in connection with the Legacy Dean acquisition and certain other consideration. Also on December 21, 2001, immediately after we completed the acquisition of Legacy Dean, Legacy Dean changed its name to Dean Holding Company and we changed our name from Suiza Foods Corporation to Dean Foods Company. In May 2002, we bought the portion of White Wave, Inc., maker of Silk soy products, that we did not already own, and in January 2004, we bought the portion of Horizon Organic Holding Company, which markets Horizon Organic dairy and dairy related products, that we did not already own. See Notes 2 and 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Both of these acquisitions significantly expanded our portfolio of strategic brands. Minority Holdings We own an approximately 40% interest in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle 14 Table of Contents components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners controls CCC through an approximately 55% ownership interest. The remaining approximately 5% of CCC is owned indirectly by Alan Bernon, a member of our Board of Directors, and his brother Peter Bernon. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control 2 of the 7 seats on CCCs Management Committee. We have also entered into various supply agreements with CCC pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. In 2003, we spent approximately $167.9 million on products purchased from CCC. Because CCC has issued certain senior notes, CCC files annual, quarterly and other reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. More information about CCC can be found on its website at www.cccllc.com or in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available at www.sec.gov. We also own an approximately 16% interest in Momentx, Inc., the owner and operator of dairy.com, an online vertical exchange focused on bringing farmers, farm cooperatives, processors and manufacturers together in an electronic marketplace for the exchange of goods and services, supply chain efficiency tools and dairy farm optimization tools. The remaining interests in Momentx, Inc. are owned by various other dairy processing companies, dairy cooperatives and certain other individual investors who are not affiliated with us. Pursuant to existing shareholder agreements, the founding stockholders, of which we are one, are entitled collectively to elect four of the seven seats on Momentx, Inc.s Board of Directors. Gregg Engles, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, is currently Chairman of the Board of Momentx, Inc. We are also a user of dairy.coms services and in 2003 we spent approximately $0.6 million on services purchased from Momentx, Inc. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our investments in CCC and Momentx, Inc. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We furnish our stockholders with annual reports containing audited financial statements. In addition, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Legacy Dean, which is now known as Dean Holding Company and is a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, also files annual, quarterly and current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we or Dean Holding Company file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically via the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (EDGAR). The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission via EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees and directors, is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, 15 Table of Contents will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations 16 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Dairy Group Our Dairy Group currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following plants, most of which are owned: Number Region of Plants Locations of Plants Northeast 15 Bangor, Maine Lynn, Massachusetts Franklin, Massachusetts Mendon, Massachusetts Burlington, New Jersey Union, New Jersey Rensselaer, New York Akron, Ohio Belleville, Pennsylvania Erie, Pennsylvania Lansdale, Pennsylvania Lebanon, Pennsylvania Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Springfield, Virginia Southeast 20 Birmingham, Alabama (2) Louisville, Kentucky Newport, Kentucky Orange City, Florida Orlando, Florida Miami, Florida Braselton, Georgia Hickory, North Carolina Winston Salem, North Carolina Wilkesboro, North Carolina Marietta, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Florence, South Carolina Spartanburg, South Carolina Athens, Tennessee Kingsport, Tennessee Nashville, Tennessee (2) Portsmouth, Virginia Midwest 20 Belvidere, Illinois Chemung, Illinois Huntley, Illinois OFallon, Illinois Rockford, Illinois Huntington, Indiana 17 Table of Contents Number Region of Plants Locations of Plants Rochester, Indiana Detroit, Michigan Evart, Michigan Flint, Michigan Grand Rapids, Michigan (2) Lansing, Michigan Livonia, Michigan Thief River Falls, Minnesota Woodbury, Minnesota Bismarck, North Dakota Springfield, Ohio Sioux Falls, South Dakota Sheboygan, Wisconsin Southwest 40 Buena Park, California (2) City of Industry, California Fullerton, California Hayward, California Riverside, California Tulare, California San Leandro, California Delta, Colorado Denver, Colorado (3) Englewood, Colorado Greeley, Colorado Honolulu, Hawaii Hilo, Hawaii Boise, Idaho Pocatello, Idaho New Orleans, Louisiana Shreveport, Louisiana Westwego, Louisiana Billings, Montana Great Falls, Montana Kalispell, Montana Lincoln, Nebraska Reno, Nevada Albuquerque, New Mexico (2) Tulsa, Oklahoma Dallas, Texas (2) El Paso, Texas Houston, Texas Lubbock, Texas McKinney, Texas San Antonio, Texas 18 Table of Contents Number Region of Plants Locations of Plants Sulphur Springs, Texas Waco, Texas Orem, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Morningstar Manufacturing 15 City of Industry, California (2) Gustine, California Newington, Connecticut Jacksonville, Florida Thornton, Illinois Murray, Kentucky Frederick, Maryland White Bear Lake, Minnesota New Delhi, New York Sulphur Springs, Texas (2) Mt. Crawford, Virginia Madison, Wisconsin Richland Center, Wisconsin Each of the Dairy Groups manufacturing plants also serves as a distribution facility. In addition, our Dairy Group has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. The Dairy Groups headquarters are located in Dallas, Texas in leased premises. Branded Products Group White Wave, which is part of our Branded Products Group segment, currently owns or leases the following properties: Boulder, Colorado tofu manufacturing plant Jacksonville, Florida extraction facility Bridgeton, New Jersey extraction facility Cedar City, Utah extraction facility White Waves corporate headquarters are located in leased premises in Boulder, Colorado. Horizon Organic Holding Corporation, also part of our Branded Products Group segment, owns or leases the following properties: (near) Paul, Idaho organic dairy farm Kennedyville, Maryland organic dairy farm Wilton, California farm land Aberystwyth, Wales office and production space Horizon Organic Holding Corporations corporate headquarters are located in leased premises in Longmont, Colorado. The National Brand Groups corporate headquarters are located in leased premises in Dallas, Texas. 19 Table of Contents Specialty Foods Group Our Specialty Foods Group segment currently conducts its manufacturing operations from plants in the following locations, all but one of which are owned: LaJunta, Colorado New Hampton, Iowa Chicago, Illinois Dixon, Illinois Pecatonica, Illinois Plymouth, Indiana Benton Harbor, Michigan Wayland, Michigan Faison, North Carolina Portland, Oregon Green Bay, Wisconsin The Specialty Foods Groups headquarters are located at its plant in Green Bay, Wisconsin. International Group Our International Group currently manufactures its products from plants in the following locations, all of which are owned: Pontedeume, Galicia Meira, Galicia Meruelo, Cantabria Escairn, Galicia The International Groups headquarters are located in owned premises in Pontedeume, Galicia. Corporate Our corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, Texas 75201. Item 3. Legal Proceedings On November 4, 2003, we received a notice (a so called Wells Notice) from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) informing us that the staff was planning to recommend that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against our company. The notice cites the staffs belief that we aided and abetted The Fleming Companies in Flemings acceleration of revenue recognition by providing Fleming with correspondence that allowed Fleming to characterize two payments totaling $2.7 million made by us to Fleming as current income rather than deferred revenue to be recognized over future periods. Two officers of our Dairy Group received similar notices. We expensed the two payments made to Fleming during the quarters in which they were paid, and the Wells Notice contains no allegations regarding our financial statements. We have cooperated fully in the investigation, and we are currently engaged in settlement discussions with the staff. We do not expect the investigation or a settlement thereof to have a material adverse impact on our company. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted by us during the fourth quarter of 2003 to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Our Common Stock and Related Matters Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market on April 17, 1996, and continued trading on the Nasdaq until March 5, 1997, when it began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SZA. We changed our trading symbol to DF effective December 24, 2001. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At March 10, 2004, there were approximately 6,200 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2002: First Quarter $ 25.28 $ 20.35 Second Quarter 25.67 23.57 Third Quarter 26.52 18.61 Fourth Quarter 26.81 23.60 2003: First Quarter 28.98 24.76 Second Quarter 31.50 28.41 Third Quarter 33.52 27.96 Fourth Quarter 33.25 30.01 2004: First Quarter (through March 10, 2004) 36.86 31.15 We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. Our current intention is to retain all earnings to cover working capital fluctuations and to fund capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, stock buybacks and acquisitions and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our senior credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior credit facility. 21 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2003 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2003 2002(1) 2001(1) 2000(1) 1999(1) (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales(2) $ 9,184,616 $ 8,991,464 $ 5,974,555 $ 5,499,712 $ 4,224,620 Cost of sales 6,808,207 6,642,773 4,574,258 4,150,170 3,304,473 Gross profit 2,376,409 2,348,691 1,400,297 1,349,542 920,147 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,345,065 1,321,763 794,937 756,445 468,517 General and administrative 317,342 337,496 176,642 174,353 139,175 Amortization of intangibles(3) 4,949 7,775 51,361 49,776 35,849 Plant closing, merger and other costs 11,787 19,050 9,550 2,747 11,185 Other operating (income) expense(4) (68,719 ) (17,306 ) 7,500 Total operating costs and expenses 1,610,424 1,686,084 1,015,184 990,821 654,726 Operating income 765,985 662,607 385,113 358,721 265,421 Other (income) expense: Interest expense, net(5) 181,134 197,685 103,820 99,329 45,764 Financing charges on trust issued preferred securities 14,164 33,578 33,581 33,595 38,584 Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated affiliates (244 ) 7,899 23,620 (11,453 ) (2,630 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,625 ) 2,660 4,817 (233 ) (511 ) Total other expense 192,429 241,822 165,838 121,238 81,207 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 573,556 420,785 219,275 237,483 184,214 Income taxes 217,853 152,988 80,160 92,489 74,254 Minority interest in earnings(6) 46 31,431 29,911 8,813 Income from continuing operations 355,703 267,751 107,684 115,083 101,147 Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax (8,231 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 879 3,592 3,636 8,584 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 355,703 260,399 111,276 118,719 109,731 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax (84,983 ) (1,446 ) Net income $ 355,703 $ 175,416 $ 109,830 $ 118,719 $ 109,731 Basic earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.45 $ 1.98 $ 1.28 $ 1.36 $ 1.02 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (.05 ) .04 .04 .09 Cumulative effect of accounting change (.63 ) (.02 ) Net income $ 2.45 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.40 $ 1.11 Diluted earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.27 $ 1.77 $ 1.17 $ 1.24 $ .97 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (.05 ) .03 .03 .07 Cumulative effect of accounting change (.51 ) (.01 ) Net income $ 2.27 $ 1.21 $ 1.19 $ 1.27 $ 1.04 Average common shares: Basic 145,201,412 135,031,274 84,454,194 84,585,129 98,583,654 Diluted 160,695,670 163,163,904 110,676,222 110,013,792 128,575,476 Other data: Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends(7) 3.53x 2.78x 2.86x 2.68x 3.79x Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 6,992,536 $ 6,582,266 $ 6,691,897 $ 3,780,478 $ 2,658,922 Long term debt(8) 2,791,514 2,727,924 3,068,497 1,353,269 712,068 Other long term liabilities 279,823 312,110 196,189 53,753 53,782 Mandatorily redeemable convertible trust issued preferred securities 585,177 584,605 584,032 683,505 Total stockholders equity 2,542,813 1,643,293 1,475,880 598,832 583,972 22 Table of Contents (1) Balances for 1999 through 2002 have been adjusted to remove our Puerto Rico operations which have been reclassified as discontinued operations. (2) Net sales have been restated to reflect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 01 09 Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer. The net effect was to decrease net sales by $33.7 million, $29.9 million and $22.2 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. (3) On January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which requires, among other things, that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives no longer be amortized and that recognized intangible assets with finite lives be amortized over their respective useful lives. As required by SFAS No. 142, our results for periods prior to 2002 have not been restated. (4) Results for 2003 include a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of our frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations and a gain of $2.5 million related to the divestiture of 11 plants in 2001. Results for 2001 include a gain of $47.5 million on the divestiture of 11 plants offset by an expense of $28.5 million resulting from a payment to a supplier as consideration for modifications to an agreement and an impairment charge of $1.7 million on a water plant. Results in 2000 include litigation settlement costs of $7.5 million. (5) Results for 2001 and 2000 have been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 145 Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13 and Technical Corrections. Gains and losses that were previously recorded as extraordinary items related to the early extinguishment of debt, which were a $7.3 million loss in 2001 and a $7.7 million gain in 2000, have been reclassified to interest expense. There was no effect on net income. (6) In December 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas 33.8% stake in our Dairy Group. (7) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (8) Includes amounts outstanding under subsidiary lines of credit and the current portion of long term debt. 23 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are a leading food and beverage company. Our Dairy Group is the largest processor and distributor of milk and various other dairy products in the United States. Our Branded Products Group markets and sells a variety of well known dairy and dairy related branded products including, for example: Silk soymilk; Horizon Organic dairy products and juices; International Delight coffee creamers; Maries refrigerated dips and dressings; and Hersheys milks and milkshakes. Our Specialty Foods Group is one of the leading pickle processors in the United States and a maker of a variety of other specialty food products. We also own the fourth largest dairy processor in Spain. Segments and Operating Divisions In 2003, we had three reportable segments, including the Dairy Group, Morningstar/ White Wave and the Specialty Foods Group. Effective January 1, 2004, we reorganized our former Morningstar Foods division, which has resulted in a new segment reporting structure. We now have the following reportable segments: the Dairy Group, the Branded Products Group and the Specialty Foods Group. Our reportable segments and other operating divisions are described below. Dairy Group Our Dairy Group segment is our largest segment, with approximately 78% of our 2003 consolidated sales. Our Dairy Group manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, such as milk, cream, ice cream, cultured dairy products and juices, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, schools and governmental entities across the United States. The Dairy Group also manufactures most of the products marketed and sold by our Branded Products Group. Due to the perishable nature of the Dairy Groups products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers stores in refrigerated trucks that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system and we have one of the most extensive DSD systems in the United States. Branded Products Group Our Branded Products Group develops, markets and sells our portfolio of strategic brands, including Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic dairy products, juices and infant formula, International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, The Organic Cow of Vermont organic milk, Rachels Organic organic dairy products (sold in the U.K.), Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverage and Deans dips. Our Branded Products Group consists of three distinct operating divisions: the National Brand Group, White Wave and Horizon Organic. Prior to 2004, we had a Morningstar Foods division that manufactured, marketed and sold all of our strategic brands except for our soy products, and also manufactured and sold private label dairy products. Approximately half of Morningstar Foods 2003 sales consisted of private label dairy products. In mid 2003, we began the process of reorganizing the operations of our Morningstar Foods division, as part of a company wide effort to sharpen our focus on our strategic brands and to maximize our manufacturing efficiency. Effective January 1, 2004, we completed the shift of all of Morningstar Foods private label sales and all of its manufacturing operations to the Dairy Group. We also created the National Brand Group and assigned it the sole responsibility of developing, marketing and selling the former Morningstar Foods strategic brands, which include International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverage and Deans dips. Other branded products sold by the National Brand Group include Mocha Mix non dairy liquid coffee creamer, Naturally YoursTM sour cream and Second Nature egg substitute. We license the Hersheys, Land OLakes and Folgers names from third parties for use on certain of our products. White Wave markets and sells Silk soymilk, the leading brand of soymilk in the United States; Sun Soy soymilk; Silk cultured soy products; and White Wave branded tofu, tempeh and seitan to a variety of customers across the United States and in several foreign countries, including mass merchandisers, club 24 Table of Contents stores, grocery stores, natural foods stores, convenience stores and foodservice outlets, using its internal sales force and independent brokers. Horizon Organic, which we acquired on January 2, 2004, markets and sells a full line of branded and private label organic dairy products and juices to retailers across the United States and in the U.K. using its internal sales force and independent brokers, under the Horizon Organic, The Organic Cow of Vermont, and Rachels Organic brands. All of Horizon Organics products are certified organic products, as defined by the USDAs Organic Regulations. Specialty Foods Group Our Specialty Foods Group is one of the nations leading pickle processors, and the largest manufacturer and seller of powdered non dairy coffee creamers in the United States. The Specialty Foods Group also manufactures and sells a variety of specialty foods, such as powdered ingredients, aseptic sauces and nutritional beverages. International Group Our International Group, which does not qualify as a reportable segment, manufactures, markets and sells private label and branded milk, butter, cream and cheese through its internal sales force to retailers and distributors across Spain and Portugal. Current Business Strategy We are focused on consistently creating and maximizing shareholder value primarily through the following strategies: Investing in Our Brands We believe that investing in our brands is key to growing our sales and our profitability. In 2004, we intend to spend approximately $210 million marketing the strategic brands of our Branded Products Group, with an emphasis on our largest and most successful brands: Silk, Horizon Organic, International Delight and Hersheys. In addition, during 2004 we expect to spend approximately $50 million marketing our regional Dairy Group brands. Rationalizing Our Operations An important part of our strategy is reducing costs and ensuring that our resources are properly aligned with our strategic direction. Therefore, in 2004 we intend to continue (i) rationalizing production between manufacturing facilities and realigning Dairy Group delivery routes, (ii) closing facilities with overlapping markets or excess capacity, and (iii) eliminating duplicative administrative functions. Investing Our Cash Our company generates a significant amount of cash flow from operating activities. In addition to investing in our brands, we intend to invest our capital where we believe returns are greatest, which could include acquisitions in our core lines of business, repurchases of our stock and or reductions of indebtedness. Developments Since January 1, 2003 Acquisitions and Divestitures On January 26, 2004, our Dairy Group acquired Ross Swiss Dairies, a dairy distributor based in Los Angeles, California, which had net sales of approximately $120 million in 2003. As a result of this acquisition, we have increased the distribution capability of our Dairy Group in southern California, allowing us to better serve our customers. Ross Swiss Dairies has historically purchased a significant portion of its products from other processors. We intend to shift the manufacturing of substantially all of Ross Swiss Dairies product needs into our southern California plants in 2004. We paid approximately $20 million for the purchase of Ross Swiss Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On January 2, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the 87% of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation that we did not already own. Horizon Organic Holding Corporation had sales of approximately $214 million during 2003. We already owned approximately 13% of the outstanding common stock of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation as a result of investments made in 1998. All of Horizon Organics manufacturing has historically been done by third party co packers, including us. During 2003, we produced approximately 27% of Horizon Organics fluid dairy products. We intend to increase that percentage over time. We also distribute 25 Table of Contents Horizon Organics products in several parts of the country. Because organic foods are gaining popularity with consumers and because Horizon Organics products offer consumers an alternative to our Dairy Groups traditional dairy products, we believe Horizon Organic is an important addition to our portfolio of strategic brands. The purchase price for the 87% of Horizon Organic that we did not already own was approximately $216 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility and our receivables backed facility. We also repaid approximately $40 million of borrowings under Horizon Organics former credit facilities. Beginning in the first quarter of 2004, Horizon Organics financial results will be reported in our Branded Products Group segment. On December 24, 2003, our Specialty Foods Group acquired the Cremora branded non dairy powdered coffee creamer business from Eagle Family Foods. Prior to the acquisition, we had been producing Cremora creamers for Eagle Family Foods pursuant to a co packing arrangement, which generated approximately $8.9 million of net sales for us in 2003. The Cremora brand had sales of approximately $15.8 million for the 12 months ended June 30, 2003. We purchased the Cremora business for a purchase price of approximately $12.6 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility. On October 15, 2003, we acquired Kohler Mix Specialties, Inc., whose product line consists primarily of private label ultra pasteurized ice cream mixes, creamers and creams, sold primarily in the foodservice channel. From the time of the acquisition through the end of 2003, Kohler was part of our former Morningstar/ White Wave segment. Effective January 1, 2004, Kohler became part of our Dairy Group, along with all of Morningstar Foods other private label and manufacturing operations. Kohler had net sales of approximately $187.5 million for the 12 months ended August 31, 2003. We paid approximately $158.6 million for the purchase of Kohler, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On July 31, 2003, our Morningstar/ White Wave segment sold its frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations for cash proceeds of approximately $90 million, all of which was used to reduce indebtedness. The divested operations were our only operations with frozen warehouse distribution, and we sold it in order to more closely align our financial and management resources with our strategic direction and expertise. On June 9, 2003, our Dairy Group acquired Melody Farms, LLC, a regional dairy processor based in Livonia, Michigan. Melody Farms had net sales of approximately $116 million during the 12 months ended March 31, 2003. We paid approximately $52.7 million for Melody Farms, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. Plant Closing and Rationalization Activities As part of our overall integration and cost reduction strategy, we closed or announced the closure of five Dairy Group facilities in 2003 and reduced (or intend to reduce) our workforce accordingly. We also restructured certain administrative functions in the Northeast and Midwest regions of our Dairy Group, in addition to Morningstar Foods. Branded Product Initiatives Our nationally branded products were a significant focus for us in 2003. We spent approximately $188 million marketing and gaining additional distribution for our strategic brands during 2003. TIPES In three separate transactions during the second quarter of 2003, we called for redemption all of our trust issued preferred securities (TIPES). The TIPES were convertible at the option of the holders, at any time, into shares of our common stock and were redeemable, at our option, at any time at specified premiums. In response to our three announced redemption transactions, holders of more than 99% of all outstanding TIPES elected to convert their TIPES into shares of our common stock rather than receive the cash redemption price. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2003, we issued a total of approximately 23 million shares of common stock to holders of TIPES in lieu of cash redemption payments, and we paid approximately $2.4 million in cash to holders who did not elect to convert. There are no remaining TIPES outstanding. 26 Table of Contents Stock Buyback During 2003, we spent approximately $185.5 million to repurchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock for an average purchase price of $27.82 per share. At March 10, 2004, approximately $114.6 million remained available under our current authorization. Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 9,184,616 100.0 % $ 8,991,464 100.0 % $ 5,974,555 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,808,207 74.1 6,642,773 73.9 4,574,258 76.6 Gross profit 2,376,409 25.9 2,348,691 26.1 1,400,297 23.4 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,345,065 14.6 1,321,763 14.7 794,937 13.3 General and administrative 317,342 3.5 337,496 3.7 176,642 2.9 Amortization of intangibles 4,949 0.1 7,775 0.1 51,361 0.9 Plant closing and rationalization costs 11,787 0.1 19,050 0.2 9,550 0.2 Other operating (income) expense (68,719 ) (0.7 ) (17,306 ) (0.3 ) Total operating costs and expenses 1,610,424 17.6 1,686,084 18.7 1,015,184 17.0 Total operating income $ 765,985 8.3 % $ 662,607 7.4 % $ 385,113 6.4 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased approximately 2% to $9.18 billion during 2003 from $8.99 billion in 2002. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2003 2002 $ Increase % Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 7,146,028 $ 7,061,538 $ 84,490 1.2 % Morningstar/ White Wave 1,109,499 1,056,751 52,748 5.0 Specialty Foods Group 684,207 673,604 10,603 1.6 Corporate/ Other 244,882 199,571 45,311 22.7 Total $ 9,184,616 $ 8,991,464 $ 193,152 2.1 % 27 Table of Contents The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2003 vs. 2002 Divestitures and Pricing, Volume Discontinued Foreign and Product Total Acquisitions Product Lines Exchange Mix Changes Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 82,299 $ 2,191 $ 84,490 Morningstar/White Wave 96,092 (114,465 ) 71,121 52,748 Specialty Foods Group (13,668 ) 24,271 10,603 Corporate/Other 40,304 5,007 45,311 Total $ 178,391 $ (128,133 ) $ 40,304 $ 102,590 $ 193,152 See Results by Segment for more information. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers; costs associated with transporting our finished products from our manufacturing facilities to our own distribution facilities; and the cost of shipping products to customers through third party carriers. Our cost of sales ratio was 74.1% in 2003 compared to 73.9% in 2002. Increased raw material costs affected all of our segments in 2003. Also, the Morningstar/ White Wave segment incurred higher costs due to certain manufacturing inefficiencies related to the introduction of new products and new technologies, and the realignment of certain manufacturing operations. See Results by Segment. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expense ratio was 17.6% in 2003 compared to 18.7% during 2002. This decrease was mostly due to (i) a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of Morningstar/ White Waves frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in the third quarter of 2003, (ii) a gain of $2.5 million related to the divestiture of 11 plants in 2001, which was recorded at corporate as a result of certain contingencies being favorably resolved during 2003, and (iii) lower plant closing and other rationalization costs of $11.8 million in 2003 compared to $19.1 million in 2002, primarily due to differences in the nature of the restructuring activities and to the timing of recognition of certain charges as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, in January 2003. Operating Income Operating income during 2003 was $766 million, an increase of $103.4 million from 2002 operating income of $662.6 million. Our operating margin in 2003 was 8.3% compared to 7.4% in 2002. Excluding the gain of $68.7 million related to divestitures, our operating margin in 2003 would have been 7.6% compared to 7.4% in 2002. Other (Income) Expense Total other expense decreased by $49.4 million in 2003 compared to 2002. Interest expense decreased to $181.1 million in 2003 from $197.7 million in 2002. This decrease was the result of lower interest rates and lower average debt balances in 2003. Financing charges on preferred securities were $14.2 million in 2003 versus $33.6 million in 2002 due to the successful retirement of these securities during the second quarter of 2003. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was $0.2 million in 2003 compared to a loss of $7.9 million in 2002. Income in 2003 related to our approximately 13% interest in Horizon Organic Holding Corporation. In 2002, we recorded income of $2.1 million which was primarily related to our 36% interest in White Wave through May 9, 2002, when we acquired the remaining equity interest in White Wave and began consolidating White Waves results with our financial results. This income was offset in 2002 by a $10 million loss on our minority interest in Consolidated Container Company. See Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38% in 2003 compared to 36.4% in 2002. In 2002 we recorded the favorable settlement of a contested tax issue. Our tax rate varies as the mix of earnings contributed by our various business units changes, and as tax savings initiatives are adopted. 28 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Results by Segment As noted above, we had three reportable segments in 2003: the Dairy Group, Morningstar/ White and the Specialty Foods Group. Our new segment reporting structure will begin with the first quarter of 2004. The key performance indicators of our segments are sales, gross profit and operating income. Dairy Group Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 7,146,028 100.0 % $ 7,061,538 100.0 % Cost of sales 5,295,482 74.1 5,249,730 74.3 Gross profit 1,850,546 25.9 1,811,808 25.7 Operating costs and expenses 1,241,930 17.4 1,290,873 18.3 Total operating income $ 608,616 8.5 % $ 520,935 7.4 % The Dairy Groups net sales increased by approximately $84.5 million, or 1.2%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales from 2002 to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 7,061.5 Acquisitions 82.3 1.2 % Volume (127.1 ) (1.8 ) Pricing and product mix 129.3 1.8 2003 Net sales $ 7,146.0 1.2 % The Dairy Group acquired Melody Farms, LLC in June 2003. Melody Farms had annual revenues of approximately $116 million in the 12 month period ended March 31, 2003. The Dairy Group also made a number of small acquisitions in 2003. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Volume change for all products, net of the effect of acquisitions, was a decline of 1.8% in 2003 compared to 2002. That volume change was driven primarily by the fluid dairy category (which represented 73% of the Dairy Groups 2003 sales) and the ice cream category (which represented 12% of the Dairy Groups 2003 sales). Equivalent gallons of fluid dairy products sold (including milk, cream and ice cream mix) decreased by 1.1% in 2003. We believe the decrease is due primarily to continued declining consumption of traditional fluid dairy products in some parts of the country. Ice cream and ice cream novelty volumes declined by approximately 7% in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily because we sell our ice cream under private labels and local brands, and we believe we lost sales during the year to nationally branded products which were promoted more aggressively than our products. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. The increase in sales due to price and product mix shown in the above table primarily results from higher raw milk costs in 2003 than in 2002. These price increases due to increases in the cost of raw milk were offset somewhat by price concessions that were granted in some markets in 2003 due to the competitive environment. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I 29 Table of Contents mover and average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2003 compared to 2002: Year Ended December 31* 2003 2002 % Change Class I raw skim milk mover(3) $ 7.47 (1) $ 7.01(1 ) 7 % Class I butterfat mover(3) 1.19 (2) 1.21(2 ) (2 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(4) 6.74 (1) 7.62(1 ) (12 ) Class II butterfat minimum(4) 1.22 (2) 1.20(2 ) 2 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation, and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Cream for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) Prices are per pound. (3) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. The Dairy Groups cost of sales ratio improved slightly in 2003 compared to 2002. Prices of raw milk were significantly lower in the first 8 months of 2003 than in 2002. Increased raw milk prices in the last 4 months of the year did not fully offset the effects of lower raw milk prices in the first 8 months of the year. The Dairy Groups operating expense ratio decreased from 18.3% in 2002 to 17.4% in 2003. Part of the improvement in the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio in 2003 was due to the effects of increased raw milk costs. Higher raw milk costs generally increase sales dollars because we increase the prices that we charge for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in accordance with fluctuations in the price of raw milk. Therefore, increased raw milk costs will generally decrease the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio and decreased raw milk costs will generally increase the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio. The decrease in the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio was also affected by lower insurance, advertising, bad debt and bonus expenses in 2003. Insurance costs (including the costs of self insurance) declined approximately $13.1 million in 2003 as a result of better claims experience. Advertising expenses decreased approximately $12.8 million in 2003 partially because we reduced planned advertising spending in 2003 in anticipation of the difficult raw milk environment and also because advertising expense in 2002 was higher than normal because we incurred unusual advertising costs in order to (1) promote our brands in certain parts of the country following our acquisition of Legacy Dean, and (2) promote two local Dairy Group brands affected by product recalls in 2002. Bad debt expense declined approximately $11.2 million compared to 2002. In 2002, some of our customers experienced economic difficulty and a few large customers sought bankruptcy protection. Bonus expenses were $6.4 million lower in 2003 than in 2002 as a result of our actual performance compared to bonus targets. Finally, the ratio was helped in 2003 by $4.3 million in lower plant closing and rationalization costs. 30 Table of Contents Morningstar/ White Wave Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 1,109,499 100.0 % $ 1,056,751 100.0 % Cost of sales 794,095 71.6 720,075 68.1 Gross profit 315,404 28.4 336,676 31.9 Operating costs and expenses 196,807 17.7 225,008 21.3 Total operating income $ 118,597 10.7 % $ 111,668 10.6 % Morningstar/White Waves net sales increased by $52.7 million, or 5%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales in 2002 compared to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 1,056.8 Acquisitions 96.1 9.1 % Divestitures/discontinued product lines (114.5 ) (10.8 ) Volume 87.7 8.3 Pricing and product mix (16.6 ) (1.6 ) 2003 Net sales $ 1,109.5 5.0 % On October 15, 2003 our Morningstar/White Wave segment acquired Kohler Mix Specialties, Inc., which had sales of approximately $187.5 million during the 12 month period ended August 31, 2003. We acquired the 64% of White Wave that we did not already own in May 2002. Therefore, 2003 includes 12 months of White Wave sales compared to only 8 months in 2002. In an effort to better align our resources with our strategic direction, Morningstar/White Wave sold its frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in July 2003. Also, as a result of our acquisition of Legacy Dean in December 2001, we decided to discontinue certain of Morningstar/White Waves product lines that were competitive with other products sold by Morningstar/White Wave. Accordingly, beginning in January 2002, we began an orderly exit from the Lactaid, Nestle Nesquik and Nestle Coffeemate co packing businesses so that we could focus our management and financial resources on our Land OLakes Dairy Ease and International Delight brands. Our transition out of the Lactaid co packing business was completed in February 2002 and our transition out of the Nestle co packing business was completed in February 2003. Unit volumes for Morningstar/White Wave increased 8.3% overall in 2003 (net of the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and discontinued product lines) due to the success of our strategic brands, particularly Silk. Strategic brand volumes increased 45% in 2003 versus 2002. On a pro forma basis as if White Wave had been acquired on January 1, 2002 (instead of May 9, 2002), strategic brand volumes increased 27% in 2003. Partly offsetting this increase was a 5% volume decline in Morningstars private label business due primarily to cannibalization of Morningstar/White Waves private label creamer sales by sales of Land OLakes creamers (which are included in our strategic brands), and a 9.6% volume decline in Morningstar/White Waves non strategic brand sales due primarily to the fact that our sales and marketing resources were focused on our strategic brands. Morningstar/White Wave invested approximately $188 million marketing our strategic brands in 2003, and successfully penetrated new channels such as club stores and foodservice. Approximately $91 million of that amount was spent on slotting fees, couponing and certain other promotional costs, which were recorded as reductions of revenue. 31 Table of Contents The dollar change in sales of our strategic brands did not increase as much as volume sales primarily because in the first half of 2003, Morningstar Foods/White Wave introduced new plastic packaging for International Delight and in order to clear shelf space for International Delight in the new plastic packaging, Morningstar/White Wave substantially reduced the price of International Delight in paper cartons. Also, promotional spending that was recorded as a reduction of revenue increased by $10 million in 2003 versus 2002. The cost of sales ratio for Morningstar/White Wave increased in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to the impact of (1) short term manufacturing inefficiencies related to the introduction of new products and new technologies, (2) short term manufacturing inefficiencies due to certain manufacturing realignments related to the shifting of Morningstars manufacturing operations to the Dairy Group, (3) an additional $15 million of packaging costs due to the introduction of International Delight in plastic packaging, and (4) increased depreciation on our new long shelf life manufacturing equipment. These increases were partly offset by decreased Class II raw milk prices. The operating expense ratio at Morningstar/White Wave decreased due to a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of our frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in the third quarter of 2003. Excluding the impact of the $66.2 million gain, Morningstar/White Waves operating expense ratio was 23.7% during 2003 compared to 21.3% during 2002. This increase was primarily due to $36 million of higher marketing expenses in 2003 related to the introduction of new products and higher promotional spending on strategic brands. The ratio was also significantly impacted by the addition of White Wave in May 2002, which accrued almost $10 million more in 2003 than in 2002 for bonuses to be paid in March 2004 under the White Wave Performance Bonus Plan that was established when we acquired White Wave in May 2002. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Partly offsetting these items was a $3 million decrease in plant closing and rationalization costs. Specialty Foods Group Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 684,207 100.0 % $ 673,604 100.0 % Cost of sales 513,188 75.0 498,085 73.9 Gross profit 171,019 25.0 175,519 26.1 Operating costs and expenses 67,963 9.9 76,645 11.4 Total operating income $ 103,056 15.1 % $ 98,874 14.7 % The Specialty Foods Groups net sales increased by $10.6 million, or 1.6%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales from 2002 to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percentage (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 673.6 Divestitures (13.7 ) (2.0 ) Volume 15.9 2.4 Pricing and product mix 8.4 1.2 2003 Net sales $ 684.2 1.6 % The Specialty Foods Group sold EBI Foods, Ltd. in October 2002. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net of the effects of this divestiture, the Specialty Foods Groups pickle volumes declined 1.6% in 2003 compared to 2002 due to the bankruptcy of a large customer, and to the overall effects of economic difficulties in the foodservice sector as a whole. Approximately 28% of the Specialty Foods Groups sales were to foodservice customers in 2003. This decrease was more than offset by a 12.8% increase 32 Table of Contents in unit volumes of powdered coffee creamers as a result of new business and a 15.2% increase in unit volumes of nutritional beverages due to increased demand. Pricing was up in all categories primarily due to increased raw material costs that were passed on to customers in the form of higher selling prices. Also, promotional spending that is recorded as a reduction of revenue was down by $15.3 million in 2003 compared to 2002. The Specialty Foods Groups cost of sales ratio increased in 2003 as a result of higher raw material prices, especially glass, and increases in natural gas prices. The Specialty Foods Group uses a significant amount of natural gas in its operations. The operating expense ratio for the Specialty Foods Group declined in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to the sale of EBI Foods, Ltd. in October 2002, which had higher operating expenses, and to lower bonus expense. Bonus expenses were $1.3 million less in 2003 as a result of our actual performance compared to bonus targets. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Consolidated Results Important Note: We completed our acquisition of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean) on December 21, 2001. As a result, full year comparisons between 2002 and 2001 are less meaningful than they would be otherwise. We obtained our Specialty Foods Group segment as part of our acquisition of Legacy Dean. Therefore, except for sales, no prior year comparisons are provided because the Specialty Foods Group segment was only owned for a few days in 2001. More complete segment data can be found in Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible assets. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, comparisons between 2002 and 2001 are less meaningful than they would be otherwise. Where appropriate, we have provided comparisons eliminating the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives in 2001. See Notes 1 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding SFAS No. 142. Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased 50.5% to $8.99 billion during 2002 from $5.97 billion in 2001. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2002 2001 $ Increase % Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 7,061,538 $ 5,042,836 $ 2,018,702 40.0 % Morningstar/ White Wave 1,056,751 741,992 314,759 42.4 Specialty Foods Group 673,604 18,709 654,895 3,500.4 Corporate/ Other 199,571 171,018 28,553 16.7 Total $ 8,991,464 $ 5,974,555 $ 3,016,909 50.5 % The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2002 vs. 2001 Pricing, Divestitures and Volume and Discontinued Foreign Product Mix Total Acquisitions Product Lines Exchange Changes Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 2,894,166 $ (507,903 ) $ (367,561 ) $ 2,018,702 Morningstar/ White Wave 399,754 (144,884 ) 59,889 314,759 Specialty Foods Group 654,895 654,895 Corporate/ Other 9,469 19,084 28,553 Total $ 3,948,815 $ (652,787 ) $ 9,469 $ (288,588 ) $ 3,016,909 33 Table of Contents Cost of Sales Our cost of sales ratio was 73.9% in 2002 compared to 76.6% in 2001. This decrease was due primarily to lower raw material costs. See Results by Segment. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expense ratio was 18.7% in 2002 compared to 17% during 2001. Comparability of these ratios is significantly affected by our adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. Excluding $48.4 million of amortization in 2001, our operating expense ratio would have been 16.2% in 2001, compared to 18.8% in 2002. This increase is primarily due to the effects of lower raw material prices in 2002, increased promotional spending on our strategic brands in 2002 and accrued bonuses under White Waves Performance Bonus Plan established in May 2002. See Results by Segment. Operating Income Operating income during 2002 was $662.6 million, an increase of $277.5 million from 2001 operating income of $385.1 million. Our operating margin in 2002 was 7.4% compared to 6.4% in 2001. Excluding 2001 amortization that would have been eliminated had SFAS No. 142 been in effect last year, our operating income would have increased by $229.1 million in 2002 as compared to 2001 and our operating margin would have been 7.4% in 2002 as compared to 7.3% in 2001. See Results by Segment. Other (Income) Expense Total other expense increased by $76 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Interest expense increased to $197.7 million in 2002 from $103.8 million in 2001 as a result of higher debt used to finance the acquisitions of Legacy Dean and White Wave. 2001 interest expense included a $7.3 million loss related to the early extinguishment of debt. Financing charges on preferred securities were $33.6 million in both years. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was a net loss of $7.9 million in 2002 compared to a net loss of $23.6 million in 2001. We recorded income of $2.1 million in 2002, which was primarily related to our 36% interest in White Wave through May 9, 2002, when we acquired the remaining equity interest in White Wave and began consolidating White Waves results with our financial results. This income was offset by a $10 million loss on our minority interest in Consolidated Container Company (CCC). During the fourth quarter of 2002, we agreed to make a $10 million loan to CCC in exchange for the cancellation of our pre existing $10 million guaranty of CCCs indebtedness and additional equity interests in CCC. The additional infusion of cash to CCC required us to record our share of CCCs 2002 losses, up to $10 million. This transaction also resulted in our ownership percentage declining to approximately 40% from 43%. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about this transaction. Our loss from unconsolidated affiliates in 2001 related primarily to our investment in CCC. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we concluded that our investment in CCC was impaired and that the impairment was not temporary, and as a result we wrote off our remaining investment in CCC. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 36.4% in 2002 compared to 36.7% in 2001. In 2002 and 2001, contested income tax issues were resolved in our favor. Our tax rate varies as the mix of earnings contributed by our various business units changes, and as tax savings initiatives are adopted. Minority Interest Minority interest in earnings decreased significantly to $46 thousand in 2002 from $31.4 million in 2001. For most of 2002, management of EBI Foods Ltd., a subsidiary of our Specialty Foods segment, owned a small minority interest in that subsidiary. We sold our interest in EBI Foods Ltd. in October 2002. In 2001, Dairy Farmers of America owned a 33.8% minority interest in our Dairy Group. On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased the 33.8% stake that was owned by Dairy Farmers of America. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations On December 30, 2002, we sold our operations in Puerto Rico resulting in a loss on sale from discontinued operations of $8.2 million, including income tax expense. We also recorded income from discontinued operations of $0.9 million during 2002 versus $3.6 million in 2001. All amounts attributable to our former Puerto Rico operations, for all periods, have been reclassified to Income from discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change As part of our adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002 we wrote down the value of certain trademarks and the goodwill related to our Puerto Rico operations which our analysis indicated were impaired. Our adoption of this accounting standard resulted in the recognition of 34 Table of Contents $85 million, net of an income tax benefit of $29 million, as a charge to earnings. During 2001, we recorded a charge of $1.4 million, net of an income tax benefit of $1.5 million and a minority interest benefit of $0.7 million related to our adoption of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Results by Segment Dairy Group Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 7,061,538 100.0 % $ 5,042,836 100.0 % Cost of sales 5,249,730 74.3 3,896,136 77.3 Gross profit 1,811,808 25.7 1,146,700 22.7 Operating costs and expenses 1,290,873 18.3 822,945 16.3 Total operating income $ 520,935 7.4 % $ 323,755 6.4 % The Dairy Groups net sales increased by approximately $2 billion, or 40%, in 2002 versus 2001. The change in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2001 Net sales $ 5,042.8 Acquisitions 2,894.2 57.4 % Divestitures (507.9 ) (10.1 ) Pricing, volume and product mix (367.6 ) (7.3 ) 2002 Net sales $ 7,061.5 40.0 % We completed the acquisition of Legacy Dean on December 21, 2001, and Legacy Deans dairy operations were merged into our Dairy Group. The acquisition of Legacy Deans dairy operations (net of the plants divested as part of the transaction) contributed a net increase in sales of approximately $2.4 billion. The Dairy Groups 2002 sales were negatively affected by certain volume decreases. On a pro forma basis as if Legacy Dean had been acquired on January 1, 2001 (net of the plants divested as part of the transaction), the Dairy Groups fluid milk volumes during 2002 would have been relatively flat compared to 2001, while ice cream and ice cream novelty volumes were down 4.5%. Our ice cream is sold under private labels and local brands, and we lost sales during the year to nationally branded products, which are usually promoted more aggressively than our products. 35 Table of Contents Prices were down in 2002 versus 2001 because the price of raw milk was down considerably. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2002 compared to 2001: Year Ended December 31* 2002 2001 % Change Class I raw skim milk mover(3) $ 7.01 (1) $ 7.93 (1) (12 )% Class I butterfat mover(3) 1.21 (2) 1.89 (2) (36 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(4) 7.62 (1) 8.33 (1) (9 ) Class II butterfat minimum(4) 1.20 (2) 1.86 (2) (35 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation, and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Cream for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) Prices are per pound. (3) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams, ice cream and sour cream. The Dairy Groups cost of sales ratio improved in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to lower raw milk costs. The operating expense ratio at the Dairy Group was 18.3% in 2002 compared to 16.3% in 2001. Excluding approximately $39.4 million of amortization in 2001, the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio would have been 15.5% in 2001, compared to 18.3% in 2002. The increase in the 2002 operating expense ratio was primarily due to the effect of lower raw milk prices in 2002 and to the impact of a gain of $47.5 million in 2001 related to the divestiture of 11 plants in connection with the acquisition of Legacy Dean. Lower raw milk prices generally result in lower sales dollars because we decrease the prices of our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in accordance with fluctuations in the price of raw milk. Therefore, falling raw milk prices will generally increase the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio and rising raw milk prices will generally reduce the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio. In addition to the effects of lower raw milk costs and the $47.5 million gain, the ratio was also affected by increased advertising, bad debt and bonus expenses in 2002 compared to 2001. We incurred unusual advertising costs in 2002 in an effort to promote our brands in certain parts of the country following our acquisition of Legacy Dean. Bad debt expense was affected in 2002 by the financial difficulties of several of our customers, and bonus expense was affected in 2002 because our performance was better than bonus targets for the year causing increased bonus expense. 36 Table of Contents Morningstar/ White Wave Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 1,056,751 100.0 % $ 741,992 100.0 % Cost of sales 720,075 68.1 518,367 69.9 Gross profit 336,676 31.9 223,625 30.1 Operating costs and expenses 225,008 21.3 119,331 16.1 Total operating income $ 111,668 10.6 % $ 104,294 14.0 % Morningstar/ White Waves sales increased by $315 million, or approximately 42.4%, in 2002 versus 2001. The change in Morningstar/ White Waves net sales from 2001 to 2002 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2001 Net sales $ 742.0 Acquisitions 399.8 53.9 % Divestitures and discontinued product lines (144.9 ) (19.5 ) Pricing, volume and product mix 59.9 8.0 2002 Net sales $ 1,056.8 42.4 % We completed the acquisition of Legacy Dean on December 21, 2001, and Legacy Deans National Refrigerated Products operations were merged into our Morningstar/ White Wave segment. The National Refrigerated Products Group had net sales of approximately $371.7 million in the 12 months ended May 27, 2001. On May 9, 2002 we acquired the 64% equity interest in White Wave, Inc. that we did not already own. White Wave had net sales of $125 million in the 12 months ended March 31, 2002. On May 17, 2002, we bought the assets of Maries Quality Foods, Maries Dressings, Inc. and Maries Associates, makers of Maries brand dips and dressings in the western United States, with net sales of $15.7 million in the 12 months ended March 31, 2002. We estimate that the acquisition of Legacy Dean added approximately $275 million of sales at our Morningstar/ White Wave segment during 2002. Precise measurement of the impact of the acquisition of Legacy Dean on Morningstar/ White Waves sales is not possible because Legacy Deans National Refrigerated Products segment was quickly integrated into Morningstar Foods and is not accounted for separately. The acquisition of White Wave contributed approximately $113 million during 2002, while the Maries business contributed approximately $10 million. In January 2002, Morningstar/ White Wave began an orderly exit from certain product lines including the Lactaid, Nestle Nesquik and Nestle Coffeemate co packing businesses. See Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Results by Segment Morningstar/ White Wave. Total unit volume comparisons from 2001 to 2002 are not meaningful because it is not possible to isolate the volume impact of acquisitions since we did not account for the volume acquired from Legacy Dean separately in 2002. However, we do believe that the $59.9 million increase in sales due to pricing, revenue and product mix changes shown in the table above was due primarily to increased sales of our strategic brands. These increases were partially offset by (i) the effects of significantly lower raw milk and bulk cream costs in 2002 that were passed along to customers in the form of lower selling prices, and (ii) approximately $81 million of promotional spending in 2002 that was recorded as a reduction of revenue, compared to approximately $33.7 million in 2001. The cost of sales ratio for Morningstar/ White Wave improved in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to lower Class II raw milk and butterfat costs. 37 Table of Contents The operating expense ratio at Morningstar/ White Wave was 21.3% during 2002 compared to 16.1% in 2001. Excluding approximately $7.2 million of amortization in 2001, the operating expense ratio would have been 15.1% in 2001, compared to 21.3% in 2002. This increase was caused primarily by higher promotional expenses related to the introduction of new products, and the acquisition of White Wave. Morningstar/ White Wave spent approximately $127 million promoting our strategic brands in 2002, of which $46 million was included in 2002 operating expenses. Only $11.5 million of promotional expenses were included in operating expenses in 2001. The ratio was also affected by $11.7 million in management bonus accruals in 2002 for White Wave management under the Performance Bonus Plan that was established when we bought White Wave in May 2002. Also, plant closing costs were $4.9 million higher in 2002. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Cash Flow During 2003, we met our working capital needs with cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $522.3 million for 2003 as contrasted to $642.6 million for 2002, a decrease of $120.3 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by: An increase of $91.5 million in net income from continuing operations plus non cash items in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to the increase in deferred income taxes; and Changes in assets and liabilities which declined by $211.9 million in 2003 compared to the previous year, primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and inventory as a result of higher raw material prices in the fourth quarter of 2003. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations was $436.2 million in 2003 compared to $309.1 million in 2002, an increase of $127.1 million. We used approximately $291.7 million for capital expenditures and approximately $246.6 million for acquisitions. We had cash proceeds from the sale of the frozen pre whipped topping and frozen creamer operations and one other small business of $90 million in 2003. In 2002, we had cash proceeds from the divestiture of Puerto Rico and three other small businesses of $148.3 million. We used approximately $199.5 million to repurchase our stock during 2003, including $14 million paid in 2003 for prior year repurchases. Set forth in the chart below is a summary of the stock we repurchased in 2003: No. of Shares of Average Common Stock Aggregate Purchase Period Repurchased Purchase Price Price Per Share (Dollars in millions) January 2003 4,854,900 $ 128.5 $ 26.48 August 2003 360,000 9.9 27.52 November 2003 992,400 31.9 32.08 December 2003 461,000 15.2 33.01 We received approximately $95.3 million in 2003 as a result of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. We received a net amount of $27 million in 2003 from borrowings in 2003. Current Debt Obligations Our senior credit facility provides us with a revolving line of credit of up to $1 billion, a Tranche A term loan in the amount of $1 billion and a Tranche B term loan in the amount of $750 million. 38 Table of Contents Amounts outstanding under the revolver and the Tranche A term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to one of the following rates, at our option: a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or the prime rate, plus a margin that varies from 0 to 75 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (which is computed as the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement), or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) divided by the product of one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, plus a margin that varies from 125 to 200 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). EBITDA is defined in the credit agreement for any period as, the sum of (i) net income (excluding extraordinary items) after taxes for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP, plus (ii) an amount which, in the determination of such net income, has been deducted for (a) all interest expense, including the interest component under capital leases and the implied interest component under our receivables backed facilities, plus net amounts payable (or minus net amounts receivable) under hedging agreements, minus interest income for such period, in each case as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), (b) total federal, state, local and foreign income, value added and similar taxes, (c) depreciation, amortization expense and other noncash charges, (d) pro forma cost savings add backs resulting from non recurring charges related to acquisitions to the extent permitted under the credit agreement and under Regulation S X of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or as approved by the representative of the lenders and (e) other adjustments reasonably acceptable to the representative of the lenders. Borrowings under the Tranche B term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to one of the following rates, at our option: a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or the prime rate, plus a margin of 75 basis points, or LIBOR divided by the product of one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, plus a margin of 200 basis points. The blended interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 3.05% at December 31, 2003. However, we had interest rate swap agreements in place that hedged $1.13 billion of our borrowings under this facility at an average rate of 4.32%, plus the applicable interest rate margin. Interest is payable quarterly or at the end of the applicable interest period. Principal payments are required on the Tranche A term loan as follows: $37.5 million quarterly beginning on September 30, 2003 through December 31, 2004; $43.75 million quarterly on March 31, 2005 through December 31, 2005; $50 million quarterly on March 31, 2006 through December 31, 2006; $62.5 million quarterly on March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007; and A final payment of $275 million on July 15, 2007. Principal payments are required on the Tranche B term loan as follows: $1.875 million quarterly beginning on September 30, 2003 through December 31, 2007; and $358.1 million on each of March 31, 2008 and July 15, 2008. No principal payments are due on the $1 billion line of credit until maturity on July 15, 2007. Our credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions not in the ordinary course of business. 39 Table of Contents In consideration of the revolving commitment, we pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the $1 billion revolving credit facility that ranges from 25 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). The senior credit facility contains various financial and other restrictive covenants and requires that we maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio (computed as the ratio of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement) and an interest coverage ratio (computed as the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement). In addition, this facility requires that we maintain a minimum level of net worth (as defined in the credit agreement). For the period from December 31, 2003 through March 31, 2005, our leverage ratio must be less than or equal to 4 to 1. Beginning April 1, 2005, our leverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, must be less than or equal to 3.75 to 1. As of December 31, 2003, our leverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, was 3.16 to 1. EBITDA, as used in our credit agreement, is not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and principles and should not be used as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our operating performance or to cash flow as a measure of our liquidity. Moreover, EBITDA is a term used by many companies to mean many different things. Therefore, neither our EBITDA nor our leverage ratio, calculated under our credit agreement, should be compared to any other companys EBITDA or leverage ratio. We present our leverage ratio in this discussion not as a measure of our liquidity or performance but only to demonstrate our level of compliance with our credit agreement. Our interest coverage ratio must be greater than or equal to 3 to 1. As of December 31, 2003, our interest coverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, was 5.24 to 1. Our consolidated net worth must be greater than or equal to $1.75 billion, as increased each quarter (beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2003) by an amount equal to 50% of our consolidated net income for the quarter, plus 50% of the amount by which stockholders equity is increased by certain equity issuances. As of December 31, 2003, the minimum net worth requirement was $1.85 billion, and our actual net worth (as defined in the credit agreement) was $2.54 billion. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash consideration is not greater than $300 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, and (4) the transaction is approved by the Board of Directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required percentage of lenders. The facility also contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. The credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of Legacy Deans subsidiaries, and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries). The agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The agreement does not contain any default triggers based on our debt rating. At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding borrowings of $1.78 billion under our senior credit facility (compared to $1.83 billion at December 31, 2002), including $1.67 billion in term loan borrowings, and $112.8 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility. In addition, at December 31, 2003, there were $108.9 million of letters of credit under the revolver that were issued but undrawn. On January 2, 2004, we acquired the equity interests in Horizon Organic Holding Corporation that we did not already own and used approximately $80 million of borrowings under our senior credit facility to pay a portion of the purchase price. 40 Table of Contents As of March 1, 2004, approximately $665.4 million was available for future borrowings under our credit facility. We are currently, and have always been, in compliance with all covenants contained in our credit agreement. In addition to our senior credit facility, we also have a $500 million receivables backed credit facility, which had $302.5 million outstanding at December 31, 2003. We used approximately $180 million of borrowings under this facility to pay a portion of the purchase price for Horizon Organic Holding Corporation. Therefore, approximately $451.8 million was outstanding under this facility at March 1, 2004. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our receivables backed facility. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2003 included $700 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, a $6.4 million line of credit at our Spanish subsidiary, $11.7 million of industrial development revenue bonds and approximately $26.2 million of capital lease and other obligations. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness and lease obligations at December 31, 2003. Please see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Payments Due by Period Indebtedness & Lease Obligations Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter (Dollars in thousands) Senior credit facility $ 1,784,053 $ 157,500 $ 182,500 $ 207,500 $ 520,303 $ 716,250 Senior notes(1) 700,000 100,000 250,000 $ 350,000 Receivables backed facility 302,500 302,500 Foreign line of credit 6,401 6,401 Industrial development revenue bonds 11,700 3,500 8,200 Capital lease obligations and other(1) 26,523 12,757 4,688 6,567 2,258 172 81 Purchasing obligations 229,748 144,797 43,527 12,267 10,360 8,522 10,275 Operating leases 452,273 90,662 76,356 61,556 51,483 42,950 129,266 Total $ 3,513,198 $ 415,617 $ 407,071 $ 590,390 $ 834,404 $ 767,894 $ 497,822 (1) Represents face value. In addition to the letters of credit secured by our senior credit facility, at December 31, 2003 we had approximately $16.2 million of letters of credit with three other banks that were issued but undrawn. The majority of these were required by various utilities and government entities for performance and insurance guarantees. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may also impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Pension costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and pension costs. 41 Table of Contents In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in pension obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2003, we recorded non cash expense of $15.3 million, of which $12.8 million was attributable to periodic expense and $2.5 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $9.1 million in 2002, of which $3 million was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. As of December 31, 2003, we decreased the assumed discount rate in 2002 from 6.75% to a range of 6% to 6.5%. In selecting assumed rate of return on plan assets, we considered past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan as well as the interim target allocation policy. Plan asset returns were $25 million in 2003 after decreasing by $19.7 million in 2002. Net periodic pension expense for our plans is expected to decrease in 2004 by approximately $3.3 million due primarily to the increase in assets from $124.8 million as of December 31, 2002 to $151.6 million as of December 31, 2003. Based on current projections, 2004 funding requirements will be approximately $37.8 million as compared to $31.1 million for 2003. Additionally, based on current projections, 2004 funding requirements for our other postretirement benefit obligations will be approximately $2.8 million as compared to $2.4 million in 2003. As a result of lower discount rates at December 31, 2003, we were required to recognize an additional minimum liability as prescribed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 132, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. The accumulated other comprehensive income component of the additional minimum liability, which totaled $37.9 million ($23.6 million after tax), was recorded as a reduction to shareholders equity through a charge to Other Comprehensive Income, and did not affect net income for 2003. The charge to Other Comprehensive Income will be reversed in future periods to the extent the fair value of plan assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our plants until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we ever materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation and audits: the obligation to pay performance bonuses to White Waves management team in the event that established performance hurdles are met by the end of March 2004, which we currently expect to be approximately $39 million; and certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; and potential liability related to a Wells Notice we received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission related to our relationship with one of our customers. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. 42 Table of Contents Future Capital Requirements During 2004, we intend to invest a total of approximately $350 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We intend to fund these expenditures using cash flow from operations. We intend to spend this amount as follows: Operating Division Amount (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 275 Branded Products Group 25 Specialty Foods Group 20 Other 30 Total $ 350 In 2004, we expect cash interest to be approximately $170 million based on current debt levels and cash taxes to be approximately $90 million. We expect that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our requirements for our existing businesses for the foreseeable future. In 2004, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions that are compatible with our core business strategy. We may also repurchase our stock pursuant to open market or privately negotiated transactions. Approximately $114.6 million was available for spending under our stock repurchase program as of March 10, 2004. We base our decisions regarding when to repurchase stock on a variety of factors, including primarily an analysis of the optimal use of available capital, taking into account the market value of our stock, the relative expected return on alternative investments and the financial covenants in our credit facility. Any acquisitions or stock repurchases will be funded through cash flows from operations or borrowings under our senior credit facility. If necessary, we believe that we have the ability to secure additional debt or equity financing for our future capital requirements and we will explore those alternatives as appropriate. Known Trends and Uncertainties Economic Environment As a result of the recent economic environment in this country, and due to the highly competitive environment currently existing in the food retailing and foodservice industries, many of our retail and foodservice customers have experienced economic difficulty over the past 18 months to 2 years. A number of our customers have been forced to close stores and certain others have sought bankruptcy protection. This trend could have a material adverse effect on us if a material number of our customers, or any one large customer, were to be forced to close a significant number of stores or file for bankruptcy protection. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic environment. We have recently been subject to a number of intensely competitive bidding situations, which has resulted in margin erosion on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. Loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our largest customers, and most of the contracts that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. Prices of Raw Milk and Cream Our raw milk cost changes are based on the federal and certain state governments minimum prices, regional and national milk supply conditions and arrangements with our suppliers. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw material cost, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in 43 Table of Contents every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Bulk cream is also a significant raw material cost to us. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Bulk cream is used in our Class II products such as ice cream, ice cream mix, creams and creamers, sour cream and cottage cheese. In 2002 and in the first eight months of 2003, prices for raw milk and butter were unusually low. Beginning in September 2003 and continuing through the end of the year, prices for raw milk and butter increased significantly. Although Class I prices in early 2004 have declined from the levels experienced in late 2003, they have remained at levels higher than the 2003 average. We expect Class I prices to continue to rise throughout the remainder of the year. Class II prices have increased significantly over the levels experienced late last year, and are expected to continue to increase over the next several months. Although we currently expect Class II prices to decrease somewhat in the latter part of 2004, we anticipate that they will still be at levels higher than experienced in 2003. Of course, raw milk and butter prices are difficult to predict and we change our forecasts frequently based on current market activity. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. However, there can be a lag between the time of a raw material cost increase or decrease and the effectiveness of a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. (We use Class II butterfat to make creams, cultured dairy products and ice cream). Also, in some cases we are contractually restrained with respect to the means and timing of implementing price changes, and at some point price increases could erode our volumes. These factors can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin (expressed as a percentage of sales) fluctuate with the price of our raw materials. We expect our profit margins to be lower in 2004 as a result of the expected increase in the price of raw milk. Grocery Strikes From October 11, 2003 until February 29, 2004, the workers of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union were on strike in southern California. This strike affected many of our retail grocery customers in southern California whose employees are members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Our business in southern California was adversely affected in the fourth quarter of 2003 and in most of the first quarter of 2004 as a result of the strike. We estimate that the strike adversely impacted our fourth quarter consolidated diluted earnings per share by approximately $.015. We cannot yet estimate the impact on our results for the first quarter of 2004; however, we expect it to be a proportionately similar amount to the fourth quarter of 2003. Plant Closings As part of our ongoing efforts to reduce our costs and improve our manufacturing efficiency, we expect to close approximately six to eight plants in 2004. We will incur costs in connection with these plant closings, which will be recorded as operating expenses in the quarter in which they are incurred. Expenses associated with plant closings generally include severance costs, property and equipment write down costs and in some cases, lease termination expenses. These costs vary from plant to plant and cannot be estimated with certainty. We expect the majority of the plants closed in 2004 to be closed in the second half of 2004. Also, we expect to incur $4.3 million of additional costs primarily in 2004 related to facilities closed prior to 2004. Tax Rate Our 2003 tax rate was approximately 38%. We believe that our effective tax rate will be approximately 38% for 2004. See Risk Factors for a description of various other risks and uncertainties concerning our business. 44 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2003, our allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $32.7 million, or 0.4% of sales. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of sales, was also 0.4% in 2002. Each 0.1% change in that ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to sales would impact net income by approximately $5.7 million. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities for incurred but not reported losses related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $136.3 million and $128.5 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes Deferred taxes are recognized for future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. We periodically estimate our probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and informed judgments. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period which could have an impact on our earnings. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. The change in our valuation allowance increased $7.5 million in 2003 due to increased likelihood that state net operating losses will expire before they are used. Valuation of Long Lived Intangible Assets and Goodwill In January 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and as a result, we no longer amortize goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives. In lieu of amortization, we now conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite lives annually and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the value of our intangibles using cash flow analyses, which require the use of significant judgments and estimates, including projections of enterprise values and expected cash flows from specific product sales in the future. Purchase Price Allocation We allocate the cost of acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. All identifiable assets acquired, including identifiable intangibles, and liabilities assumed are assigned a portion of the cost of the acquired company, normally equal to their fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of the acquired company over the sum of the amounts assigned to identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. We record the initial purchase price 45 Table of Contents allocation based on evaluation of information and estimates available at the date of the financial statements. As final information regarding fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation. To the extent that such adjustments indicate that the fair value of assets and liabilities differ from their preliminary purchase price allocations, such difference would adjust the amounts allocated to those assets and liabilities and would change the amounts allocated to goodwill. The final purchase price allocation includes the consideration of a number of factors to determine the fair value of individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed including quoted market prices, forecast of expected cash flows, net realizable values, estimates of the present value of required payments and determination of remaining useful lives. Employee Benefit Plan Costs We provide a range of benefits to our employees including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions that we make could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. In 2003, we decided to consolidate the assets of our ten qualified pension plans into one master trust. This consolidation is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2004. Also in 2003, we retained investment consultants to assist our Investment Committee with the transition of the plans assets to the master trust and to help our Investment Committee formulate a long term investment policy for the newly established master trust. We have developed an interim investment policy to ensure a smooth transition to the master trust. Our current asset mix guidelines under the interim investment policy target equities at 65 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25 35%. We expect to develop and adopt a long term investment policy in early 2004. We determine our expected long term rate of return based on our expectations of future returns for the pension plans investments based on interim target allocations of the pension plans investments. Additionally, we consider the weighted average return of a capital markets model that was developed by the plans investment consultants and historical returns on comparable equity, debt and other investments. The resulting weighted average expected long term rate of return on plan assets is 8.5%. A 1% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would increase our annual pension expense by approximately $1.52 million. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by approximately $0.2 million. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which the associated legal obligation for the liability is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset and amortized over the useful life of the asset. SFAS No. 143 became effective for us in 2003. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections, was issued in April 2002 and is applicable to fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. One of the provisions of this technical statement is the rescission of SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, whereby any gain or loss on the early extinguishment of debt that was classified as an extraordinary item in prior periods in accordance with SFAS No. 4, which does not meet the criteria of an extraordinary item as defined by APB Opinion 30, must be reclassified. Adoption of this standard required us to reclassify gains and losses related to early extinguishment of debt that were previously 46 Table of Contents reported as extraordinary as a component of interest expense. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2002, FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, and is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. Our adoption of this standard changed the timing of the recognition of certain charges associated with exit and disposal activities. In November 2002, FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. FIN No. 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, relating to the accounting for and disclosure of certain guarantees issued and indemnification obligations incurred. FIN No. 45 requires disclosure of certain guarantees and indemnification obligations. It also requires liability recognition for the fair value of certain guarantees and indemnification obligations made or incurred after December 31, 2002. We adopted FIN No. 45 effective January 1, 2003. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by FIN No. 45. In December 2003, FASB issued FIN No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (revised December 2003). FIN 46(R) provides guidance for identifying a controlling interest in a variable interest entity (VIE) established by means other than voting interests. FIN 46(R) also requires consolidation of a VIE by an enterprise that holds such a controlling interest. The effective date for interest qualification is December 31, 2003. We currently utilize special purpose limited liability entities to facilitate our receivable backed facility. Since their formations, these entities have been consolidated in our financial statements for financial reporting purposes. Therefore, the adoption of FIN No. 46(R) had no material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This statement amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This statement required that contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for similarly and is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. Our reporting for our hedging activities is within the requirements of this statement, therefore SFAS No. 149 did not have an impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity. This statement, which became effective for us on July 1, 2003, requires that certain financial instruments which had previously been classified as equity be classified as liabilities. We have no outstanding securities that meet the criteria of SFAS No. 150. Therefore, SFAS No. 150 had no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, to improve financial statement disclosures for defined benefit plans. This standard requires that companies provide more details about their plan assets, benefit obligations, cash flows, benefit costs and other relevant information. In addition to expanded annual disclosures, we are required to report the various elements of pension and other postretirement benefit costs on a quarterly basis. SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003) is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003, and for quarters beginning after December 15, 2003. The expanded disclosure requirements are included in this report. In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 in response to a new law regarding prescription drug benefits under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans. Currently, SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for 47 Table of Contents Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, requires that changes in relevant law be considered in current measurement of postretirement benefit costs. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new law and will defer recognition, as permitted by FSP 106 1, until authoritative guidance is issued. Risk Factors This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Statements that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements about our future that are not statements of historical fact. Most of these statements are found in this report under the following subheadings: Part I Item 1. Business, Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, expects, seek to, anticipates, plans, believes, estimates, intends, predicts, projects, potential or continue or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating those statements, you should carefully consider the information above, including in Known Trends and Uncertainties, as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. Further Consolidation of the Grocery and Foodservice Industries Could Cost Us Customers and Sales Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced significant consolidation. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep our existing customers, or gain new customers. Winning new customers is especially important to the growth of our Dairy Group, as demand tends to be relatively flat in the dairy industry. There are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As the consolidation of the grocery industry continues, we could lose sales if any one or more of our existing customers were to be sold to a chain with captive dairy operations. Our Recent Successes in the Refrigerated Soymilk and Organic Foods Industries Could Attract New and Stronger Competitors, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales We have experienced a great deal of success in the past in the refrigerated soymilk and organic foods industries. Our Silk soymilk and our Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to slow and could cause us to lose sales. Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Hersheys, Borden, Pet, Folgers, Land OLakes and others. In some cases, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. 48 Table of Contents We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our high debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions, impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, and expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our net income. If we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit facilities, we may default under them. Upon default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. These swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges against variable interest rate exposure. The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements in effect as of December 31, 2003: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 1.48% to 6.69% December 2004 $ 650 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 6.23% June 2003 $ 50 4.29% to 4.69% December 2003 275 4.01% to 6.69% December 2004 275 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 In 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that provided hedges for euro denominated loans, which were repaid and replaced with euro denominated borrowings under our senior credit facility. The following table describes this swap agreement as of December 31, 2003 and 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts 5.60% November 2004 12 million euros (approximately $15.1 million as of December 31, 2003 and $12.6 million as of December 31, 2002) We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our credit facilities falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We incurred $25.6 million of 49 Table of Contents additional interest expense, net of taxes, during 2003 as a result of interest rates on our variable rate debt falling below the agreed upon interest rate on our existing swap agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. A majority of our debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency We are exposed to foreign currency risk due to operating cash flows and various financial instruments that are denominated in foreign currencies. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro and the British pound. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such foreign currency exchange rate change would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 50 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are a leading food and beverage company. Our Dairy Group is the largest processor and distributor of milk and various other dairy products in the United States. Our Branded Products Group markets and sells a variety of well known dairy and dairy related branded products including, for example: Silk soymilk; Horizon Organic dairy products and juices; International Delight coffee creamers; Maries refrigerated dips and dressings; and Hersheys milks and milkshakes. Our Specialty Foods Group is one of the leading pickle processors in the United States and a maker of a variety of other specialty food products. We also own the fourth largest dairy processor in Spain. Segments and Operating Divisions In 2003, we had three reportable segments, including the Dairy Group, Morningstar/ White Wave and the Specialty Foods Group. Effective January 1, 2004, we reorganized our former Morningstar Foods division, which has resulted in a new segment reporting structure. We now have the following reportable segments: the Dairy Group, the Branded Products Group and the Specialty Foods Group. Our reportable segments and other operating divisions are described below. Dairy Group Our Dairy Group segment is our largest segment, with approximately 78% of our 2003 consolidated sales. Our Dairy Group manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, such as milk, cream, ice cream, cultured dairy products and juices, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, schools and governmental entities across the United States. The Dairy Group also manufactures most of the products marketed and sold by our Branded Products Group. Due to the perishable nature of the Dairy Groups products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers stores in refrigerated trucks that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system and we have one of the most extensive DSD systems in the United States. Branded Products Group Our Branded Products Group develops, markets and sells our portfolio of strategic brands, including Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic dairy products, juices and infant formula, International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, The Organic Cow of Vermont organic milk, Rachels Organic organic dairy products (sold in the U.K.), Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverage and Deans dips. Our Branded Products Group consists of three distinct operating divisions: the National Brand Group, White Wave and Horizon Organic. Prior to 2004, we had a Morningstar Foods division that manufactured, marketed and sold all of our strategic brands except for our soy products, and also manufactured and sold private label dairy products. Approximately half of Morningstar Foods 2003 sales consisted of private label dairy products. In mid 2003, we began the process of reorganizing the operations of our Morningstar Foods division, as part of a company wide effort to sharpen our focus on our strategic brands and to maximize our manufacturing efficiency. Effective January 1, 2004, we completed the shift of all of Morningstar Foods private label sales and all of its manufacturing operations to the Dairy Group. We also created the National Brand Group and assigned it the sole responsibility of developing, marketing and selling the former Morningstar Foods strategic brands, which include International Delight coffee creamers, Hersheys milks and milkshakes, Land OLakes Dairy Ease and Land OLakes creamers, Maries dips and dressings, Folgers Jakada milk and coffee beverage and Deans dips. Other branded products sold by the National Brand Group include Mocha Mix non dairy liquid coffee creamer, Naturally YoursTM sour cream and Second Nature egg substitute. We license the Hersheys, Land OLakes and Folgers names from third parties for use on certain of our products. White Wave markets and sells Silk soymilk, the leading brand of soymilk in the United States; Sun Soy soymilk; Silk cultured soy products; and White Wave branded tofu, tempeh and seitan to a variety of customers across the United States and in several foreign countries, including mass merchandisers, club 24 Table of Contents stores, grocery stores, natural foods stores, convenience stores and foodservice outlets, using its internal sales force and independent brokers. Horizon Organic, which we acquired on January 2, 2004, markets and sells a full line of branded and private label organic dairy products and juices to retailers across the United States and in the U.K. using its internal sales force and independent brokers, under the Horizon Organic, The Organic Cow of Vermont, and Rachels Organic brands. All of Horizon Organics products are certified organic products, as defined by the USDAs Organic Regulations. Specialty Foods Group Our Specialty Foods Group is one of the nations leading pickle processors, and the largest manufacturer and seller of powdered non dairy coffee creamers in the United States. The Specialty Foods Group also manufactures and sells a variety of specialty foods, such as powdered ingredients, aseptic sauces and nutritional beverages. International Group Our International Group, which does not qualify as a reportable segment, manufactures, markets and sells private label and branded milk, butter, cream and cheese through its internal sales force to retailers and distributors across Spain and Portugal. Current Business Strategy We are focused on consistently creating and maximizing shareholder value primarily through the following strategies: Investing in Our Brands We believe that investing in our brands is key to growing our sales and our profitability. In 2004, we intend to spend approximately $210 million marketing the strategic brands of our Branded Products Group, with an emphasis on our largest and most successful brands: Silk, Horizon Organic, International Delight and Hersheys. In addition, during 2004 we expect to spend approximately $50 million marketing our regional Dairy Group brands. Rationalizing Our Operations An important part of our strategy is reducing costs and ensuring that our resources are properly aligned with our strategic direction. Therefore, in 2004 we intend to continue (i) rationalizing production between manufacturing facilities and realigning Dairy Group delivery routes, (ii) closing facilities with overlapping markets or excess capacity, and (iii) eliminating duplicative administrative functions. Investing Our Cash Our company generates a significant amount of cash flow from operating activities. In addition to investing in our brands, we intend to invest our capital where we believe returns are greatest, which could include acquisitions in our core lines of business, repurchases of our stock and or reductions of indebtedness. Developments Since January 1, 2003 Acquisitions and Divestitures On January 26, 2004, our Dairy Group acquired Ross Swiss Dairies, a dairy distributor based in Los Angeles, California, which had net sales of approximately $120 million in 2003. As a result of this acquisition, we have increased the distribution capability of our Dairy Group in southern California, allowing us to better serve our customers. Ross Swiss Dairies has historically purchased a significant portion of its products from other processors. We intend to shift the manufacturing of substantially all of Ross Swiss Dairies product needs into our southern California plants in 2004. We paid approximately $20 million for the purchase of Ross Swiss Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On January 2, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the 87% of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation that we did not already own. Horizon Organic Holding Corporation had sales of approximately $214 million during 2003. We already owned approximately 13% of the outstanding common stock of Horizon Organic Holding Corporation as a result of investments made in 1998. All of Horizon Organics manufacturing has historically been done by third party co packers, including us. During 2003, we produced approximately 27% of Horizon Organics fluid dairy products. We intend to increase that percentage over time. We also distribute 25 Table of Contents Horizon Organics products in several parts of the country. Because organic foods are gaining popularity with consumers and because Horizon Organics products offer consumers an alternative to our Dairy Groups traditional dairy products, we believe Horizon Organic is an important addition to our portfolio of strategic brands. The purchase price for the 87% of Horizon Organic that we did not already own was approximately $216 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility and our receivables backed facility. We also repaid approximately $40 million of borrowings under Horizon Organics former credit facilities. Beginning in the first quarter of 2004, Horizon Organics financial results will be reported in our Branded Products Group segment. On December 24, 2003, our Specialty Foods Group acquired the Cremora branded non dairy powdered coffee creamer business from Eagle Family Foods. Prior to the acquisition, we had been producing Cremora creamers for Eagle Family Foods pursuant to a co packing arrangement, which generated approximately $8.9 million of net sales for us in 2003. The Cremora brand had sales of approximately $15.8 million for the 12 months ended June 30, 2003. We purchased the Cremora business for a purchase price of approximately $12.6 million, all of which was funded using borrowings under our senior credit facility. On October 15, 2003, we acquired Kohler Mix Specialties, Inc., whose product line consists primarily of private label ultra pasteurized ice cream mixes, creamers and creams, sold primarily in the foodservice channel. From the time of the acquisition through the end of 2003, Kohler was part of our former Morningstar/ White Wave segment. Effective January 1, 2004, Kohler became part of our Dairy Group, along with all of Morningstar Foods other private label and manufacturing operations. Kohler had net sales of approximately $187.5 million for the 12 months ended August 31, 2003. We paid approximately $158.6 million for the purchase of Kohler, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. On July 31, 2003, our Morningstar/ White Wave segment sold its frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations for cash proceeds of approximately $90 million, all of which was used to reduce indebtedness. The divested operations were our only operations with frozen warehouse distribution, and we sold it in order to more closely align our financial and management resources with our strategic direction and expertise. On June 9, 2003, our Dairy Group acquired Melody Farms, LLC, a regional dairy processor based in Livonia, Michigan. Melody Farms had net sales of approximately $116 million during the 12 months ended March 31, 2003. We paid approximately $52.7 million for Melody Farms, all of which was funded using borrowings under our receivables backed facility. Plant Closing and Rationalization Activities As part of our overall integration and cost reduction strategy, we closed or announced the closure of five Dairy Group facilities in 2003 and reduced (or intend to reduce) our workforce accordingly. We also restructured certain administrative functions in the Northeast and Midwest regions of our Dairy Group, in addition to Morningstar Foods. Branded Product Initiatives Our nationally branded products were a significant focus for us in 2003. We spent approximately $188 million marketing and gaining additional distribution for our strategic brands during 2003. TIPES In three separate transactions during the second quarter of 2003, we called for redemption all of our trust issued preferred securities (TIPES). The TIPES were convertible at the option of the holders, at any time, into shares of our common stock and were redeemable, at our option, at any time at specified premiums. In response to our three announced redemption transactions, holders of more than 99% of all outstanding TIPES elected to convert their TIPES into shares of our common stock rather than receive the cash redemption price. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2003, we issued a total of approximately 23 million shares of common stock to holders of TIPES in lieu of cash redemption payments, and we paid approximately $2.4 million in cash to holders who did not elect to convert. There are no remaining TIPES outstanding. 26 Table of Contents Stock Buyback During 2003, we spent approximately $185.5 million to repurchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock for an average purchase price of $27.82 per share. At March 10, 2004, approximately $114.6 million remained available under our current authorization. Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 9,184,616 100.0 % $ 8,991,464 100.0 % $ 5,974,555 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,808,207 74.1 6,642,773 73.9 4,574,258 76.6 Gross profit 2,376,409 25.9 2,348,691 26.1 1,400,297 23.4 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,345,065 14.6 1,321,763 14.7 794,937 13.3 General and administrative 317,342 3.5 337,496 3.7 176,642 2.9 Amortization of intangibles 4,949 0.1 7,775 0.1 51,361 0.9 Plant closing and rationalization costs 11,787 0.1 19,050 0.2 9,550 0.2 Other operating (income) expense (68,719 ) (0.7 ) (17,306 ) (0.3 ) Total operating costs and expenses 1,610,424 17.6 1,686,084 18.7 1,015,184 17.0 Total operating income $ 765,985 8.3 % $ 662,607 7.4 % $ 385,113 6.4 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased approximately 2% to $9.18 billion during 2003 from $8.99 billion in 2002. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2003 2002 $ Increase % Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 7,146,028 $ 7,061,538 $ 84,490 1.2 % Morningstar/ White Wave 1,109,499 1,056,751 52,748 5.0 Specialty Foods Group 684,207 673,604 10,603 1.6 Corporate/ Other 244,882 199,571 45,311 22.7 Total $ 9,184,616 $ 8,991,464 $ 193,152 2.1 % 27 Table of Contents The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2003 vs. 2002 Divestitures and Pricing, Volume Discontinued Foreign and Product Total Acquisitions Product Lines Exchange Mix Changes Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 82,299 $ 2,191 $ 84,490 Morningstar/White Wave 96,092 (114,465 ) 71,121 52,748 Specialty Foods Group (13,668 ) 24,271 10,603 Corporate/Other 40,304 5,007 45,311 Total $ 178,391 $ (128,133 ) $ 40,304 $ 102,590 $ 193,152 See Results by Segment for more information. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers; costs associated with transporting our finished products from our manufacturing facilities to our own distribution facilities; and the cost of shipping products to customers through third party carriers. Our cost of sales ratio was 74.1% in 2003 compared to 73.9% in 2002. Increased raw material costs affected all of our segments in 2003. Also, the Morningstar/ White Wave segment incurred higher costs due to certain manufacturing inefficiencies related to the introduction of new products and new technologies, and the realignment of certain manufacturing operations. See Results by Segment. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expense ratio was 17.6% in 2003 compared to 18.7% during 2002. This decrease was mostly due to (i) a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of Morningstar/ White Waves frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in the third quarter of 2003, (ii) a gain of $2.5 million related to the divestiture of 11 plants in 2001, which was recorded at corporate as a result of certain contingencies being favorably resolved during 2003, and (iii) lower plant closing and other rationalization costs of $11.8 million in 2003 compared to $19.1 million in 2002, primarily due to differences in the nature of the restructuring activities and to the timing of recognition of certain charges as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, in January 2003. Operating Income Operating income during 2003 was $766 million, an increase of $103.4 million from 2002 operating income of $662.6 million. Our operating margin in 2003 was 8.3% compared to 7.4% in 2002. Excluding the gain of $68.7 million related to divestitures, our operating margin in 2003 would have been 7.6% compared to 7.4% in 2002. Other (Income) Expense Total other expense decreased by $49.4 million in 2003 compared to 2002. Interest expense decreased to $181.1 million in 2003 from $197.7 million in 2002. This decrease was the result of lower interest rates and lower average debt balances in 2003. Financing charges on preferred securities were $14.2 million in 2003 versus $33.6 million in 2002 due to the successful retirement of these securities during the second quarter of 2003. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was $0.2 million in 2003 compared to a loss of $7.9 million in 2002. Income in 2003 related to our approximately 13% interest in Horizon Organic Holding Corporation. In 2002, we recorded income of $2.1 million which was primarily related to our 36% interest in White Wave through May 9, 2002, when we acquired the remaining equity interest in White Wave and began consolidating White Waves results with our financial results. This income was offset in 2002 by a $10 million loss on our minority interest in Consolidated Container Company. See Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38% in 2003 compared to 36.4% in 2002. In 2002 we recorded the favorable settlement of a contested tax issue. Our tax rate varies as the mix of earnings contributed by our various business units changes, and as tax savings initiatives are adopted. 28 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Results by Segment As noted above, we had three reportable segments in 2003: the Dairy Group, Morningstar/ White and the Specialty Foods Group. Our new segment reporting structure will begin with the first quarter of 2004. The key performance indicators of our segments are sales, gross profit and operating income. Dairy Group Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 7,146,028 100.0 % $ 7,061,538 100.0 % Cost of sales 5,295,482 74.1 5,249,730 74.3 Gross profit 1,850,546 25.9 1,811,808 25.7 Operating costs and expenses 1,241,930 17.4 1,290,873 18.3 Total operating income $ 608,616 8.5 % $ 520,935 7.4 % The Dairy Groups net sales increased by approximately $84.5 million, or 1.2%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales from 2002 to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 7,061.5 Acquisitions 82.3 1.2 % Volume (127.1 ) (1.8 ) Pricing and product mix 129.3 1.8 2003 Net sales $ 7,146.0 1.2 % The Dairy Group acquired Melody Farms, LLC in June 2003. Melody Farms had annual revenues of approximately $116 million in the 12 month period ended March 31, 2003. The Dairy Group also made a number of small acquisitions in 2003. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Volume change for all products, net of the effect of acquisitions, was a decline of 1.8% in 2003 compared to 2002. That volume change was driven primarily by the fluid dairy category (which represented 73% of the Dairy Groups 2003 sales) and the ice cream category (which represented 12% of the Dairy Groups 2003 sales). Equivalent gallons of fluid dairy products sold (including milk, cream and ice cream mix) decreased by 1.1% in 2003. We believe the decrease is due primarily to continued declining consumption of traditional fluid dairy products in some parts of the country. Ice cream and ice cream novelty volumes declined by approximately 7% in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily because we sell our ice cream under private labels and local brands, and we believe we lost sales during the year to nationally branded products which were promoted more aggressively than our products. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. The increase in sales due to price and product mix shown in the above table primarily results from higher raw milk costs in 2003 than in 2002. These price increases due to increases in the cost of raw milk were offset somewhat by price concessions that were granted in some markets in 2003 due to the competitive environment. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I 29 Table of Contents mover and average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2003 compared to 2002: Year Ended December 31* 2003 2002 % Change Class I raw skim milk mover(3) $ 7.47 (1) $ 7.01(1 ) 7 % Class I butterfat mover(3) 1.19 (2) 1.21(2 ) (2 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(4) 6.74 (1) 7.62(1 ) (12 ) Class II butterfat minimum(4) 1.22 (2) 1.20(2 ) 2 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation, and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Cream for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) Prices are per pound. (3) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. The Dairy Groups cost of sales ratio improved slightly in 2003 compared to 2002. Prices of raw milk were significantly lower in the first 8 months of 2003 than in 2002. Increased raw milk prices in the last 4 months of the year did not fully offset the effects of lower raw milk prices in the first 8 months of the year. The Dairy Groups operating expense ratio decreased from 18.3% in 2002 to 17.4% in 2003. Part of the improvement in the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio in 2003 was due to the effects of increased raw milk costs. Higher raw milk costs generally increase sales dollars because we increase the prices that we charge for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in accordance with fluctuations in the price of raw milk. Therefore, increased raw milk costs will generally decrease the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio and decreased raw milk costs will generally increase the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio. The decrease in the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio was also affected by lower insurance, advertising, bad debt and bonus expenses in 2003. Insurance costs (including the costs of self insurance) declined approximately $13.1 million in 2003 as a result of better claims experience. Advertising expenses decreased approximately $12.8 million in 2003 partially because we reduced planned advertising spending in 2003 in anticipation of the difficult raw milk environment and also because advertising expense in 2002 was higher than normal because we incurred unusual advertising costs in order to (1) promote our brands in certain parts of the country following our acquisition of Legacy Dean, and (2) promote two local Dairy Group brands affected by product recalls in 2002. Bad debt expense declined approximately $11.2 million compared to 2002. In 2002, some of our customers experienced economic difficulty and a few large customers sought bankruptcy protection. Bonus expenses were $6.4 million lower in 2003 than in 2002 as a result of our actual performance compared to bonus targets. Finally, the ratio was helped in 2003 by $4.3 million in lower plant closing and rationalization costs. 30 Table of Contents Morningstar/ White Wave Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 1,109,499 100.0 % $ 1,056,751 100.0 % Cost of sales 794,095 71.6 720,075 68.1 Gross profit 315,404 28.4 336,676 31.9 Operating costs and expenses 196,807 17.7 225,008 21.3 Total operating income $ 118,597 10.7 % $ 111,668 10.6 % Morningstar/White Waves net sales increased by $52.7 million, or 5%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales in 2002 compared to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 1,056.8 Acquisitions 96.1 9.1 % Divestitures/discontinued product lines (114.5 ) (10.8 ) Volume 87.7 8.3 Pricing and product mix (16.6 ) (1.6 ) 2003 Net sales $ 1,109.5 5.0 % On October 15, 2003 our Morningstar/White Wave segment acquired Kohler Mix Specialties, Inc., which had sales of approximately $187.5 million during the 12 month period ended August 31, 2003. We acquired the 64% of White Wave that we did not already own in May 2002. Therefore, 2003 includes 12 months of White Wave sales compared to only 8 months in 2002. In an effort to better align our resources with our strategic direction, Morningstar/White Wave sold its frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in July 2003. Also, as a result of our acquisition of Legacy Dean in December 2001, we decided to discontinue certain of Morningstar/White Waves product lines that were competitive with other products sold by Morningstar/White Wave. Accordingly, beginning in January 2002, we began an orderly exit from the Lactaid, Nestle Nesquik and Nestle Coffeemate co packing businesses so that we could focus our management and financial resources on our Land OLakes Dairy Ease and International Delight brands. Our transition out of the Lactaid co packing business was completed in February 2002 and our transition out of the Nestle co packing business was completed in February 2003. Unit volumes for Morningstar/White Wave increased 8.3% overall in 2003 (net of the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and discontinued product lines) due to the success of our strategic brands, particularly Silk. Strategic brand volumes increased 45% in 2003 versus 2002. On a pro forma basis as if White Wave had been acquired on January 1, 2002 (instead of May 9, 2002), strategic brand volumes increased 27% in 2003. Partly offsetting this increase was a 5% volume decline in Morningstars private label business due primarily to cannibalization of Morningstar/White Waves private label creamer sales by sales of Land OLakes creamers (which are included in our strategic brands), and a 9.6% volume decline in Morningstar/White Waves non strategic brand sales due primarily to the fact that our sales and marketing resources were focused on our strategic brands. Morningstar/White Wave invested approximately $188 million marketing our strategic brands in 2003, and successfully penetrated new channels such as club stores and foodservice. Approximately $91 million of that amount was spent on slotting fees, couponing and certain other promotional costs, which were recorded as reductions of revenue. 31 Table of Contents The dollar change in sales of our strategic brands did not increase as much as volume sales primarily because in the first half of 2003, Morningstar Foods/White Wave introduced new plastic packaging for International Delight and in order to clear shelf space for International Delight in the new plastic packaging, Morningstar/White Wave substantially reduced the price of International Delight in paper cartons. Also, promotional spending that was recorded as a reduction of revenue increased by $10 million in 2003 versus 2002. The cost of sales ratio for Morningstar/White Wave increased in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to the impact of (1) short term manufacturing inefficiencies related to the introduction of new products and new technologies, (2) short term manufacturing inefficiencies due to certain manufacturing realignments related to the shifting of Morningstars manufacturing operations to the Dairy Group, (3) an additional $15 million of packaging costs due to the introduction of International Delight in plastic packaging, and (4) increased depreciation on our new long shelf life manufacturing equipment. These increases were partly offset by decreased Class II raw milk prices. The operating expense ratio at Morningstar/White Wave decreased due to a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of our frozen pre whipped topping and frozen coffee creamer operations in the third quarter of 2003. Excluding the impact of the $66.2 million gain, Morningstar/White Waves operating expense ratio was 23.7% during 2003 compared to 21.3% during 2002. This increase was primarily due to $36 million of higher marketing expenses in 2003 related to the introduction of new products and higher promotional spending on strategic brands. The ratio was also significantly impacted by the addition of White Wave in May 2002, which accrued almost $10 million more in 2003 than in 2002 for bonuses to be paid in March 2004 under the White Wave Performance Bonus Plan that was established when we acquired White Wave in May 2002. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Partly offsetting these items was a $3 million decrease in plant closing and rationalization costs. Specialty Foods Group Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 684,207 100.0 % $ 673,604 100.0 % Cost of sales 513,188 75.0 498,085 73.9 Gross profit 171,019 25.0 175,519 26.1 Operating costs and expenses 67,963 9.9 76,645 11.4 Total operating income $ 103,056 15.1 % $ 98,874 14.7 % The Specialty Foods Groups net sales increased by $10.6 million, or 1.6%, in 2003 versus 2002. The change in net sales from 2002 to 2003 was due to the following: Dollars Percentage (Dollars in millions) 2002 Net sales $ 673.6 Divestitures (13.7 ) (2.0 ) Volume 15.9 2.4 Pricing and product mix 8.4 1.2 2003 Net sales $ 684.2 1.6 % The Specialty Foods Group sold EBI Foods, Ltd. in October 2002. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net of the effects of this divestiture, the Specialty Foods Groups pickle volumes declined 1.6% in 2003 compared to 2002 due to the bankruptcy of a large customer, and to the overall effects of economic difficulties in the foodservice sector as a whole. Approximately 28% of the Specialty Foods Groups sales were to foodservice customers in 2003. This decrease was more than offset by a 12.8% increase 32 Table of Contents in unit volumes of powdered coffee creamers as a result of new business and a 15.2% increase in unit volumes of nutritional beverages due to increased demand. Pricing was up in all categories primarily due to increased raw material costs that were passed on to customers in the form of higher selling prices. Also, promotional spending that is recorded as a reduction of revenue was down by $15.3 million in 2003 compared to 2002. The Specialty Foods Groups cost of sales ratio increased in 2003 as a result of higher raw material prices, especially glass, and increases in natural gas prices. The Specialty Foods Group uses a significant amount of natural gas in its operations. The operating expense ratio for the Specialty Foods Group declined in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to the sale of EBI Foods, Ltd. in October 2002, which had higher operating expenses, and to lower bonus expense. Bonus expenses were $1.3 million less in 2003 as a result of our actual performance compared to bonus targets. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Consolidated Results Important Note: We completed our acquisition of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean) on December 21, 2001. As a result, full year comparisons between 2002 and 2001 are less meaningful than they would be otherwise. We obtained our Specialty Foods Group segment as part of our acquisition of Legacy Dean. Therefore, except for sales, no prior year comparisons are provided because the Specialty Foods Group segment was only owned for a few days in 2001. More complete segment data can be found in Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible assets. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, comparisons between 2002 and 2001 are less meaningful than they would be otherwise. Where appropriate, we have provided comparisons eliminating the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives in 2001. See Notes 1 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding SFAS No. 142. Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased 50.5% to $8.99 billion during 2002 from $5.97 billion in 2001. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2002 2001 $ Increase % Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 7,061,538 $ 5,042,836 $ 2,018,702 40.0 % Morningstar/ White Wave 1,056,751 741,992 314,759 42.4 Specialty Foods Group 673,604 18,709 654,895 3,500.4 Corporate/ Other 199,571 171,018 28,553 16.7 Total $ 8,991,464 $ 5,974,555 $ 3,016,909 50.5 % The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2002 vs. 2001 Pricing, Divestitures and Volume and Discontinued Foreign Product Mix Total Acquisitions Product Lines Exchange Changes Increase (Dollars in thousands) Dairy Group $ 2,894,166 $ (507,903 ) $ (367,561 ) $ 2,018,702 Morningstar/ White Wave 399,754 (144,884 ) 59,889 314,759 Specialty Foods Group 654,895 654,895 Corporate/ Other 9,469 19,084 28,553 Total $ 3,948,815 $ (652,787 ) $ 9,469 $ (288,588 ) $ 3,016,909 33 Table of Contents Cost of Sales Our cost of sales ratio was 73.9% in 2002 compared to 76.6% in 2001. This decrease was due primarily to lower raw material costs. See Results by Segment. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expense ratio was 18.7% in 2002 compared to 17% during 2001. Comparability of these ratios is significantly affected by our adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. Excluding $48.4 million of amortization in 2001, our operating expense ratio would have been 16.2% in 2001, compared to 18.8% in 2002. This increase is primarily due to the effects of lower raw material prices in 2002, increased promotional spending on our strategic brands in 2002 and accrued bonuses under White Waves Performance Bonus Plan established in May 2002. See Results by Segment. Operating Income Operating income during 2002 was $662.6 million, an increase of $277.5 million from 2001 operating income of $385.1 million. Our operating margin in 2002 was 7.4% compared to 6.4% in 2001. Excluding 2001 amortization that would have been eliminated had SFAS No. 142 been in effect last year, our operating income would have increased by $229.1 million in 2002 as compared to 2001 and our operating margin would have been 7.4% in 2002 as compared to 7.3% in 2001. See Results by Segment. Other (Income) Expense Total other expense increased by $76 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Interest expense increased to $197.7 million in 2002 from $103.8 million in 2001 as a result of higher debt used to finance the acquisitions of Legacy Dean and White Wave. 2001 interest expense included a $7.3 million loss related to the early extinguishment of debt. Financing charges on preferred securities were $33.6 million in both years. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was a net loss of $7.9 million in 2002 compared to a net loss of $23.6 million in 2001. We recorded income of $2.1 million in 2002, which was primarily related to our 36% interest in White Wave through May 9, 2002, when we acquired the remaining equity interest in White Wave and began consolidating White Waves results with our financial results. This income was offset by a $10 million loss on our minority interest in Consolidated Container Company (CCC). During the fourth quarter of 2002, we agreed to make a $10 million loan to CCC in exchange for the cancellation of our pre existing $10 million guaranty of CCCs indebtedness and additional equity interests in CCC. The additional infusion of cash to CCC required us to record our share of CCCs 2002 losses, up to $10 million. This transaction also resulted in our ownership percentage declining to approximately 40% from 43%. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about this transaction. Our loss from unconsolidated affiliates in 2001 related primarily to our investment in CCC. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we concluded that our investment in CCC was impaired and that the impairment was not temporary, and as a result we wrote off our remaining investment in CCC. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 36.4% in 2002 compared to 36.7% in 2001. In 2002 and 2001, contested income tax issues were resolved in our favor. Our tax rate varies as the mix of earnings contributed by our various business units changes, and as tax savings initiatives are adopted. Minority Interest Minority interest in earnings decreased significantly to $46 thousand in 2002 from $31.4 million in 2001. For most of 2002, management of EBI Foods Ltd., a subsidiary of our Specialty Foods segment, owned a small minority interest in that subsidiary. We sold our interest in EBI Foods Ltd. in October 2002. In 2001, Dairy Farmers of America owned a 33.8% minority interest in our Dairy Group. On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased the 33.8% stake that was owned by Dairy Farmers of America. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations On December 30, 2002, we sold our operations in Puerto Rico resulting in a loss on sale from discontinued operations of $8.2 million, including income tax expense. We also recorded income from discontinued operations of $0.9 million during 2002 versus $3.6 million in 2001. All amounts attributable to our former Puerto Rico operations, for all periods, have been reclassified to Income from discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change As part of our adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002 we wrote down the value of certain trademarks and the goodwill related to our Puerto Rico operations which our analysis indicated were impaired. Our adoption of this accounting standard resulted in the recognition of 34 Table of Contents $85 million, net of an income tax benefit of $29 million, as a charge to earnings. During 2001, we recorded a charge of $1.4 million, net of an income tax benefit of $1.5 million and a minority interest benefit of $0.7 million related to our adoption of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Results by Segment Dairy Group Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 7,061,538 100.0 % $ 5,042,836 100.0 % Cost of sales 5,249,730 74.3 3,896,136 77.3 Gross profit 1,811,808 25.7 1,146,700 22.7 Operating costs and expenses 1,290,873 18.3 822,945 16.3 Total operating income $ 520,935 7.4 % $ 323,755 6.4 % The Dairy Groups net sales increased by approximately $2 billion, or 40%, in 2002 versus 2001. The change in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2001 Net sales $ 5,042.8 Acquisitions 2,894.2 57.4 % Divestitures (507.9 ) (10.1 ) Pricing, volume and product mix (367.6 ) (7.3 ) 2002 Net sales $ 7,061.5 40.0 % We completed the acquisition of Legacy Dean on December 21, 2001, and Legacy Deans dairy operations were merged into our Dairy Group. The acquisition of Legacy Deans dairy operations (net of the plants divested as part of the transaction) contributed a net increase in sales of approximately $2.4 billion. The Dairy Groups 2002 sales were negatively affected by certain volume decreases. On a pro forma basis as if Legacy Dean had been acquired on January 1, 2001 (net of the plants divested as part of the transaction), the Dairy Groups fluid milk volumes during 2002 would have been relatively flat compared to 2001, while ice cream and ice cream novelty volumes were down 4.5%. Our ice cream is sold under private labels and local brands, and we lost sales during the year to nationally branded products, which are usually promoted more aggressively than our products. 35 Table of Contents Prices were down in 2002 versus 2001 because the price of raw milk was down considerably. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2002 compared to 2001: Year Ended December 31* 2002 2001 % Change Class I raw skim milk mover(3) $ 7.01 (1) $ 7.93 (1) (12 )% Class I butterfat mover(3) 1.21 (2) 1.89 (2) (36 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(4) 7.62 (1) 8.33 (1) (9 ) Class II butterfat minimum(4) 1.20 (2) 1.86 (2) (35 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation, and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Cream for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) Prices are per pound. (3) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams, ice cream and sour cream. The Dairy Groups cost of sales ratio improved in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to lower raw milk costs. The operating expense ratio at the Dairy Group was 18.3% in 2002 compared to 16.3% in 2001. Excluding approximately $39.4 million of amortization in 2001, the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio would have been 15.5% in 2001, compared to 18.3% in 2002. The increase in the 2002 operating expense ratio was primarily due to the effect of lower raw milk prices in 2002 and to the impact of a gain of $47.5 million in 2001 related to the divestiture of 11 plants in connection with the acquisition of Legacy Dean. Lower raw milk prices generally result in lower sales dollars because we decrease the prices of our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in accordance with fluctuations in the price of raw milk. Therefore, falling raw milk prices will generally increase the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio and rising raw milk prices will generally reduce the Dairy Groups operating expense ratio. In addition to the effects of lower raw milk costs and the $47.5 million gain, the ratio was also affected by increased advertising, bad debt and bonus expenses in 2002 compared to 2001. We incurred unusual advertising costs in 2002 in an effort to promote our brands in certain parts of the country following our acquisition of Legacy Dean. Bad debt expense was affected in 2002 by the financial difficulties of several of our customers, and bonus expense was affected in 2002 because our performance was better than bonus targets for the year causing increased bonus expense. 36 Table of Contents Morningstar/ White Wave Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 1,056,751 100.0 % $ 741,992 100.0 % Cost of sales 720,075 68.1 518,367 69.9 Gross profit 336,676 31.9 223,625 30.1 Operating costs and expenses 225,008 21.3 119,331 16.1 Total operating income $ 111,668 10.6 % $ 104,294 14.0 % Morningstar/ White Waves sales increased by $315 million, or approximately 42.4%, in 2002 versus 2001. The change in Morningstar/ White Waves net sales from 2001 to 2002 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2001 Net sales $ 742.0 Acquisitions 399.8 53.9 % Divestitures and discontinued product lines (144.9 ) (19.5 ) Pricing, volume and product mix 59.9 8.0 2002 Net sales $ 1,056.8 42.4 % We completed the acquisition of Legacy Dean on December 21, 2001, and Legacy Deans National Refrigerated Products operations were merged into our Morningstar/ White Wave segment. The National Refrigerated Products Group had net sales of approximately $371.7 million in the 12 months ended May 27, 2001. On May 9, 2002 we acquired the 64% equity interest in White Wave, Inc. that we did not already own. White Wave had net sales of $125 million in the 12 months ended March 31, 2002. On May 17, 2002, we bought the assets of Maries Quality Foods, Maries Dressings, Inc. and Maries Associates, makers of Maries brand dips and dressings in the western United States, with net sales of $15.7 million in the 12 months ended March 31, 2002. We estimate that the acquisition of Legacy Dean added approximately $275 million of sales at our Morningstar/ White Wave segment during 2002. Precise measurement of the impact of the acquisition of Legacy Dean on Morningstar/ White Waves sales is not possible because Legacy Deans National Refrigerated Products segment was quickly integrated into Morningstar Foods and is not accounted for separately. The acquisition of White Wave contributed approximately $113 million during 2002, while the Maries business contributed approximately $10 million. In January 2002, Morningstar/ White Wave began an orderly exit from certain product lines including the Lactaid, Nestle Nesquik and Nestle Coffeemate co packing businesses. See Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Results by Segment Morningstar/ White Wave. Total unit volume comparisons from 2001 to 2002 are not meaningful because it is not possible to isolate the volume impact of acquisitions since we did not account for the volume acquired from Legacy Dean separately in 2002. However, we do believe that the $59.9 million increase in sales due to pricing, revenue and product mix changes shown in the table above was due primarily to increased sales of our strategic brands. These increases were partially offset by (i) the effects of significantly lower raw milk and bulk cream costs in 2002 that were passed along to customers in the form of lower selling prices, and (ii) approximately $81 million of promotional spending in 2002 that was recorded as a reduction of revenue, compared to approximately $33.7 million in 2001. The cost of sales ratio for Morningstar/ White Wave improved in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to lower Class II raw milk and butterfat costs. 37 Table of Contents The operating expense ratio at Morningstar/ White Wave was 21.3% during 2002 compared to 16.1% in 2001. Excluding approximately $7.2 million of amortization in 2001, the operating expense ratio would have been 15.1% in 2001, compared to 21.3% in 2002. This increase was caused primarily by higher promotional expenses related to the introduction of new products, and the acquisition of White Wave. Morningstar/ White Wave spent approximately $127 million promoting our strategic brands in 2002, of which $46 million was included in 2002 operating expenses. Only $11.5 million of promotional expenses were included in operating expenses in 2001. The ratio was also affected by $11.7 million in management bonus accruals in 2002 for White Wave management under the Performance Bonus Plan that was established when we bought White Wave in May 2002. Also, plant closing costs were $4.9 million higher in 2002. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Cash Flow During 2003, we met our working capital needs with cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $522.3 million for 2003 as contrasted to $642.6 million for 2002, a decrease of $120.3 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by: An increase of $91.5 million in net income from continuing operations plus non cash items in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to the increase in deferred income taxes; and Changes in assets and liabilities which declined by $211.9 million in 2003 compared to the previous year, primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and inventory as a result of higher raw material prices in the fourth quarter of 2003. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations was $436.2 million in 2003 compared to $309.1 million in 2002, an increase of $127.1 million. We used approximately $291.7 million for capital expenditures and approximately $246.6 million for acquisitions. We had cash proceeds from the sale of the frozen pre whipped topping and frozen creamer operations and one other small business of $90 million in 2003. In 2002, we had cash proceeds from the divestiture of Puerto Rico and three other small businesses of $148.3 million. We used approximately $199.5 million to repurchase our stock during 2003, including $14 million paid in 2003 for prior year repurchases. Set forth in the chart below is a summary of the stock we repurchased in 2003: No. of Shares of Average Common Stock Aggregate Purchase Period Repurchased Purchase Price Price Per Share (Dollars in millions) January 2003 4,854,900 $ 128.5 $ 26.48 August 2003 360,000 9.9 27.52 November 2003 992,400 31.9 32.08 December 2003 461,000 15.2 33.01 We received approximately $95.3 million in 2003 as a result of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. We received a net amount of $27 million in 2003 from borrowings in 2003. Current Debt Obligations Our senior credit facility provides us with a revolving line of credit of up to $1 billion, a Tranche A term loan in the amount of $1 billion and a Tranche B term loan in the amount of $750 million. 38 Table of Contents Amounts outstanding under the revolver and the Tranche A term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to one of the following rates, at our option: a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or the prime rate, plus a margin that varies from 0 to 75 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (which is computed as the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement), or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) divided by the product of one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, plus a margin that varies from 125 to 200 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). EBITDA is defined in the credit agreement for any period as, the sum of (i) net income (excluding extraordinary items) after taxes for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP, plus (ii) an amount which, in the determination of such net income, has been deducted for (a) all interest expense, including the interest component under capital leases and the implied interest component under our receivables backed facilities, plus net amounts payable (or minus net amounts receivable) under hedging agreements, minus interest income for such period, in each case as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), (b) total federal, state, local and foreign income, value added and similar taxes, (c) depreciation, amortization expense and other noncash charges, (d) pro forma cost savings add backs resulting from non recurring charges related to acquisitions to the extent permitted under the credit agreement and under Regulation S X of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or as approved by the representative of the lenders and (e) other adjustments reasonably acceptable to the representative of the lenders. Borrowings under the Tranche B term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to one of the following rates, at our option: a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or the prime rate, plus a margin of 75 basis points, or LIBOR divided by the product of one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, plus a margin of 200 basis points. The blended interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 3.05% at December 31, 2003. However, we had interest rate swap agreements in place that hedged $1.13 billion of our borrowings under this facility at an average rate of 4.32%, plus the applicable interest rate margin. Interest is payable quarterly or at the end of the applicable interest period. Principal payments are required on the Tranche A term loan as follows: $37.5 million quarterly beginning on September 30, 2003 through December 31, 2004; $43.75 million quarterly on March 31, 2005 through December 31, 2005; $50 million quarterly on March 31, 2006 through December 31, 2006; $62.5 million quarterly on March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007; and A final payment of $275 million on July 15, 2007. Principal payments are required on the Tranche B term loan as follows: $1.875 million quarterly beginning on September 30, 2003 through December 31, 2007; and $358.1 million on each of March 31, 2008 and July 15, 2008. No principal payments are due on the $1 billion line of credit until maturity on July 15, 2007. Our credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions not in the ordinary course of business. 39 Table of Contents In consideration of the revolving commitment, we pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the $1 billion revolving credit facility that ranges from 25 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). The senior credit facility contains various financial and other restrictive covenants and requires that we maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio (computed as the ratio of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement) and an interest coverage ratio (computed as the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, as such terms are defined in the credit agreement). In addition, this facility requires that we maintain a minimum level of net worth (as defined in the credit agreement). For the period from December 31, 2003 through March 31, 2005, our leverage ratio must be less than or equal to 4 to 1. Beginning April 1, 2005, our leverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, must be less than or equal to 3.75 to 1. As of December 31, 2003, our leverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, was 3.16 to 1. EBITDA, as used in our credit agreement, is not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and principles and should not be used as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our operating performance or to cash flow as a measure of our liquidity. Moreover, EBITDA is a term used by many companies to mean many different things. Therefore, neither our EBITDA nor our leverage ratio, calculated under our credit agreement, should be compared to any other companys EBITDA or leverage ratio. We present our leverage ratio in this discussion not as a measure of our liquidity or performance but only to demonstrate our level of compliance with our credit agreement. Our interest coverage ratio must be greater than or equal to 3 to 1. As of December 31, 2003, our interest coverage ratio, calculated according to the definitions contained in the credit agreement, was 5.24 to 1. Our consolidated net worth must be greater than or equal to $1.75 billion, as increased each quarter (beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2003) by an amount equal to 50% of our consolidated net income for the quarter, plus 50% of the amount by which stockholders equity is increased by certain equity issuances. As of December 31, 2003, the minimum net worth requirement was $1.85 billion, and our actual net worth (as defined in the credit agreement) was $2.54 billion. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash consideration is not greater than $300 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, and (4) the transaction is approved by the Board of Directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required percentage of lenders. The facility also contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. The credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of Legacy Deans subsidiaries, and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries). The agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The agreement does not contain any default triggers based on our debt rating. At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding borrowings of $1.78 billion under our senior credit facility (compared to $1.83 billion at December 31, 2002), including $1.67 billion in term loan borrowings, and $112.8 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility. In addition, at December 31, 2003, there were $108.9 million of letters of credit under the revolver that were issued but undrawn. On January 2, 2004, we acquired the equity interests in Horizon Organic Holding Corporation that we did not already own and used approximately $80 million of borrowings under our senior credit facility to pay a portion of the purchase price. 40 Table of Contents As of March 1, 2004, approximately $665.4 million was available for future borrowings under our credit facility. We are currently, and have always been, in compliance with all covenants contained in our credit agreement. In addition to our senior credit facility, we also have a $500 million receivables backed credit facility, which had $302.5 million outstanding at December 31, 2003. We used approximately $180 million of borrowings under this facility to pay a portion of the purchase price for Horizon Organic Holding Corporation. Therefore, approximately $451.8 million was outstanding under this facility at March 1, 2004. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our receivables backed facility. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2003 included $700 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, a $6.4 million line of credit at our Spanish subsidiary, $11.7 million of industrial development revenue bonds and approximately $26.2 million of capital lease and other obligations. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness and lease obligations at December 31, 2003. Please see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Payments Due by Period Indebtedness & Lease Obligations Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter (Dollars in thousands) Senior credit facility $ 1,784,053 $ 157,500 $ 182,500 $ 207,500 $ 520,303 $ 716,250 Senior notes(1) 700,000 100,000 250,000 $ 350,000 Receivables backed facility 302,500 302,500 Foreign line of credit 6,401 6,401 Industrial development revenue bonds 11,700 3,500 8,200 Capital lease obligations and other(1) 26,523 12,757 4,688 6,567 2,258 172 81 Purchasing obligations 229,748 144,797 43,527 12,267 10,360 8,522 10,275 Operating leases 452,273 90,662 76,356 61,556 51,483 42,950 129,266 Total $ 3,513,198 $ 415,617 $ 407,071 $ 590,390 $ 834,404 $ 767,894 $ 497,822 (1) Represents face value. In addition to the letters of credit secured by our senior credit facility, at December 31, 2003 we had approximately $16.2 million of letters of credit with three other banks that were issued but undrawn. The majority of these were required by various utilities and government entities for performance and insurance guarantees. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may also impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Pension costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and pension costs. 41 Table of Contents In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in pension obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2003, we recorded non cash expense of $15.3 million, of which $12.8 million was attributable to periodic expense and $2.5 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $9.1 million in 2002, of which $3 million was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. As of December 31, 2003, we decreased the assumed discount rate in 2002 from 6.75% to a range of 6% to 6.5%. In selecting assumed rate of return on plan assets, we considered past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan as well as the interim target allocation policy. Plan asset returns were $25 million in 2003 after decreasing by $19.7 million in 2002. Net periodic pension expense for our plans is expected to decrease in 2004 by approximately $3.3 million due primarily to the increase in assets from $124.8 million as of December 31, 2002 to $151.6 million as of December 31, 2003. Based on current projections, 2004 funding requirements will be approximately $37.8 million as compared to $31.1 million for 2003. Additionally, based on current projections, 2004 funding requirements for our other postretirement benefit obligations will be approximately $2.8 million as compared to $2.4 million in 2003. As a result of lower discount rates at December 31, 2003, we were required to recognize an additional minimum liability as prescribed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 132, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. The accumulated other comprehensive income component of the additional minimum liability, which totaled $37.9 million ($23.6 million after tax), was recorded as a reduction to shareholders equity through a charge to Other Comprehensive Income, and did not affect net income for 2003. The charge to Other Comprehensive Income will be reversed in future periods to the extent the fair value of plan assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our plants until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we ever materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation and audits: the obligation to pay performance bonuses to White Waves management team in the event that established performance hurdles are met by the end of March 2004, which we currently expect to be approximately $39 million; and certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; and potential liability related to a Wells Notice we received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission related to our relationship with one of our customers. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. 42 Table of Contents Future Capital Requirements During 2004, we intend to invest a total of approximately $350 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We intend to fund these expenditures using cash flow from operations. We intend to spend this amount as follows: Operating Division Amount (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 275 Branded Products Group 25 Specialty Foods Group 20 Other 30 Total $ 350 In 2004, we expect cash interest to be approximately $170 million based on current debt levels and cash taxes to be approximately $90 million. We expect that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our requirements for our existing businesses for the foreseeable future. In 2004, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions that are compatible with our core business strategy. We may also repurchase our stock pursuant to open market or privately negotiated transactions. Approximately $114.6 million was available for spending under our stock repurchase program as of March 10, 2004. We base our decisions regarding when to repurchase stock on a variety of factors, including primarily an analysis of the optimal use of available capital, taking into account the market value of our stock, the relative expected return on alternative investments and the financial covenants in our credit facility. Any acquisitions or stock repurchases will be funded through cash flows from operations or borrowings under our senior credit facility. If necessary, we believe that we have the ability to secure additional debt or equity financing for our future capital requirements and we will explore those alternatives as appropriate. Known Trends and Uncertainties Economic Environment As a result of the recent economic environment in this country, and due to the highly competitive environment currently existing in the food retailing and foodservice industries, many of our retail and foodservice customers have experienced economic difficulty over the past 18 months to 2 years. A number of our customers have been forced to close stores and certain others have sought bankruptcy protection. This trend could have a material adverse effect on us if a material number of our customers, or any one large customer, were to be forced to close a significant number of stores or file for bankruptcy protection. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic environment. We have recently been subject to a number of intensely competitive bidding situations, which has resulted in margin erosion on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. Loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our largest customers, and most of the contracts that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. Prices of Raw Milk and Cream Our raw milk cost changes are based on the federal and certain state governments minimum prices, regional and national milk supply conditions and arrangements with our suppliers. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw material cost, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in 43 Table of Contents every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Bulk cream is also a significant raw material cost to us. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Bulk cream is used in our Class II products such as ice cream, ice cream mix, creams and creamers, sour cream and cottage cheese. In 2002 and in the first eight months of 2003, prices for raw milk and butter were unusually low. Beginning in September 2003 and continuing through the end of the year, prices for raw milk and butter increased significantly. Although Class I prices in early 2004 have declined from the levels experienced in late 2003, they have remained at levels higher than the 2003 average. We expect Class I prices to continue to rise throughout the remainder of the year. Class II prices have increased significantly over the levels experienced late last year, and are expected to continue to increase over the next several months. Although we currently expect Class II prices to decrease somewhat in the latter part of 2004, we anticipate that they will still be at levels higher than experienced in 2003. Of course, raw milk and butter prices are difficult to predict and we change our forecasts frequently based on current market activity. In general, we change the prices that we charge our customers for our fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of our raw materials fluctuate. However, there can be a lag between the time of a raw material cost increase or decrease and the effectiveness of a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. (We use Class II butterfat to make creams, cultured dairy products and ice cream). Also, in some cases we are contractually restrained with respect to the means and timing of implementing price changes, and at some point price increases could erode our volumes. These factors can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin (expressed as a percentage of sales) fluctuate with the price of our raw materials. We expect our profit margins to be lower in 2004 as a result of the expected increase in the price of raw milk. Grocery Strikes From October 11, 2003 until February 29, 2004, the workers of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union were on strike in southern California. This strike affected many of our retail grocery customers in southern California whose employees are members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Our business in southern California was adversely affected in the fourth quarter of 2003 and in most of the first quarter of 2004 as a result of the strike. We estimate that the strike adversely impacted our fourth quarter consolidated diluted earnings per share by approximately $.015. We cannot yet estimate the impact on our results for the first quarter of 2004; however, we expect it to be a proportionately similar amount to the fourth quarter of 2003. Plant Closings As part of our ongoing efforts to reduce our costs and improve our manufacturing efficiency, we expect to close approximately six to eight plants in 2004. We will incur costs in connection with these plant closings, which will be recorded as operating expenses in the quarter in which they are incurred. Expenses associated with plant closings generally include severance costs, property and equipment write down costs and in some cases, lease termination expenses. These costs vary from plant to plant and cannot be estimated with certainty. We expect the majority of the plants closed in 2004 to be closed in the second half of 2004. Also, we expect to incur $4.3 million of additional costs primarily in 2004 related to facilities closed prior to 2004. Tax Rate Our 2003 tax rate was approximately 38%. We believe that our effective tax rate will be approximately 38% for 2004. See Risk Factors for a description of various other risks and uncertainties concerning our business. 44 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2003, our allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $32.7 million, or 0.4% of sales. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of sales, was also 0.4% in 2002. Each 0.1% change in that ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to sales would impact net income by approximately $5.7 million. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities for incurred but not reported losses related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $136.3 million and $128.5 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes Deferred taxes are recognized for future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. We periodically estimate our probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and informed judgments. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period which could have an impact on our earnings. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. The change in our valuation allowance increased $7.5 million in 2003 due to increased likelihood that state net operating losses will expire before they are used. Valuation of Long Lived Intangible Assets and Goodwill In January 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and as a result, we no longer amortize goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives. In lieu of amortization, we now conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite lives annually and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the value of our intangibles using cash flow analyses, which require the use of significant judgments and estimates, including projections of enterprise values and expected cash flows from specific product sales in the future. Purchase Price Allocation We allocate the cost of acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. All identifiable assets acquired, including identifiable intangibles, and liabilities assumed are assigned a portion of the cost of the acquired company, normally equal to their fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of the acquired company over the sum of the amounts assigned to identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. We record the initial purchase price 45 Table of Contents allocation based on evaluation of information and estimates available at the date of the financial statements. As final information regarding fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation. To the extent that such adjustments indicate that the fair value of assets and liabilities differ from their preliminary purchase price allocations, such difference would adjust the amounts allocated to those assets and liabilities and would change the amounts allocated to goodwill. The final purchase price allocation includes the consideration of a number of factors to determine the fair value of individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed including quoted market prices, forecast of expected cash flows, net realizable values, estimates of the present value of required payments and determination of remaining useful lives. Employee Benefit Plan Costs We provide a range of benefits to our employees including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions that we make could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. In 2003, we decided to consolidate the assets of our ten qualified pension plans into one master trust. This consolidation is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2004. Also in 2003, we retained investment consultants to assist our Investment Committee with the transition of the plans assets to the master trust and to help our Investment Committee formulate a long term investment policy for the newly established master trust. We have developed an interim investment policy to ensure a smooth transition to the master trust. Our current asset mix guidelines under the interim investment policy target equities at 65 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25 35%. We expect to develop and adopt a long term investment policy in early 2004. We determine our expected long term rate of return based on our expectations of future returns for the pension plans investments based on interim target allocations of the pension plans investments. Additionally, we consider the weighted average return of a capital markets model that was developed by the plans investment consultants and historical returns on comparable equity, debt and other investments. The resulting weighted average expected long term rate of return on plan assets is 8.5%. A 1% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would increase our annual pension expense by approximately $1.52 million. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by approximately $0.2 million. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which the associated legal obligation for the liability is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset and amortized over the useful life of the asset. SFAS No. 143 became effective for us in 2003. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections, was issued in April 2002 and is applicable to fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. One of the provisions of this technical statement is the rescission of SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, whereby any gain or loss on the early extinguishment of debt that was classified as an extraordinary item in prior periods in accordance with SFAS No. 4, which does not meet the criteria of an extraordinary item as defined by APB Opinion 30, must be reclassified. Adoption of this standard required us to reclassify gains and losses related to early extinguishment of debt that were previously 46 Table of Contents reported as extraordinary as a component of interest expense. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2002, FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, and is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. Our adoption of this standard changed the timing of the recognition of certain charges associated with exit and disposal activities. In November 2002, FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. FIN No. 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, relating to the accounting for and disclosure of certain guarantees issued and indemnification obligations incurred. FIN No. 45 requires disclosure of certain guarantees and indemnification obligations. It also requires liability recognition for the fair value of certain guarantees and indemnification obligations made or incurred after December 31, 2002. We adopted FIN No. 45 effective January 1, 2003. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by FIN No. 45. In December 2003, FASB issued FIN No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (revised December 2003). FIN 46(R) provides guidance for identifying a controlling interest in a variable interest entity (VIE) established by means other than voting interests. FIN 46(R) also requires consolidation of a VIE by an enterprise that holds such a controlling interest. The effective date for interest qualification is December 31, 2003. We currently utilize special purpose limited liability entities to facilitate our receivable backed facility. Since their formations, these entities have been consolidated in our financial statements for financial reporting purposes. Therefore, the adoption of FIN No. 46(R) had no material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This statement amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This statement required that contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for similarly and is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. Our reporting for our hedging activities is within the requirements of this statement, therefore SFAS No. 149 did not have an impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity. This statement, which became effective for us on July 1, 2003, requires that certain financial instruments which had previously been classified as equity be classified as liabilities. We have no outstanding securities that meet the criteria of SFAS No. 150. Therefore, SFAS No. 150 had no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, to improve financial statement disclosures for defined benefit plans. This standard requires that companies provide more details about their plan assets, benefit obligations, cash flows, benefit costs and other relevant information. In addition to expanded annual disclosures, we are required to report the various elements of pension and other postretirement benefit costs on a quarterly basis. SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003) is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003, and for quarters beginning after December 15, 2003. The expanded disclosure requirements are included in this report. In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 in response to a new law regarding prescription drug benefits under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans. Currently, SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for 47 Table of Contents Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, requires that changes in relevant law be considered in current measurement of postretirement benefit costs. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new law and will defer recognition, as permitted by FSP 106 1, until authoritative guidance is issued. Risk Factors This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Statements that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements about our future that are not statements of historical fact. Most of these statements are found in this report under the following subheadings: Part I Item 1. Business, Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, expects, seek to, anticipates, plans, believes, estimates, intends, predicts, projects, potential or continue or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating those statements, you should carefully consider the information above, including in Known Trends and Uncertainties, as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. Further Consolidation of the Grocery and Foodservice Industries Could Cost Us Customers and Sales Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced significant consolidation. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep our existing customers, or gain new customers. Winning new customers is especially important to the growth of our Dairy Group, as demand tends to be relatively flat in the dairy industry. There are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As the consolidation of the grocery industry continues, we could lose sales if any one or more of our existing customers were to be sold to a chain with captive dairy operations. Our Recent Successes in the Refrigerated Soymilk and Organic Foods Industries Could Attract New and Stronger Competitors, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales We have experienced a great deal of success in the past in the refrigerated soymilk and organic foods industries. Our Silk soymilk and our Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to slow and could cause us to lose sales. Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Hersheys, Borden, Pet, Folgers, Land OLakes and others. In some cases, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. 48 Table of Contents We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our high debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions, impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, and expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our net income. If we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit facilities, we may default under them. Upon default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. These swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges against variable interest rate exposure. The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements in effect as of December 31, 2003: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 1.48% to 6.69% December 2004 $ 650 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 6.23% June 2003 $ 50 4.29% to 4.69% December 2003 275 4.01% to 6.69% December 2004 275 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 In 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that provided hedges for euro denominated loans, which were repaid and replaced with euro denominated borrowings under our senior credit facility. The following table describes this swap agreement as of December 31, 2003 and 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts 5.60% November 2004 12 million euros (approximately $15.1 million as of December 31, 2003 and $12.6 million as of December 31, 2002) We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our credit facilities falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We incurred $25.6 million of 49 Table of Contents additional interest expense, net of taxes, during 2003 as a result of interest rates on our variable rate debt falling below the agreed upon interest rate on our existing swap agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. A majority of our debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency We are exposed to foreign currency risk due to operating cash flows and various financial instruments that are denominated in foreign currencies. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro and the British pound. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such foreign currency exchange rate change would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 50 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, expects, seek to, anticipates, plans, believes, estimates, intends, predicts, projects, potential or continue or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating those statements, you should carefully consider the information above, including in Known Trends and Uncertainties, as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. Further Consolidation of the Grocery and Foodservice Industries Could Cost Us Customers and Sales Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced significant consolidation. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep our existing customers, or gain new customers. Winning new customers is especially important to the growth of our Dairy Group, as demand tends to be relatively flat in the dairy industry. There are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As the consolidation of the grocery industry continues, we could lose sales if any one or more of our existing customers were to be sold to a chain with captive dairy operations. Our Recent Successes in the Refrigerated Soymilk and Organic Foods Industries Could Attract New and Stronger Competitors, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales We have experienced a great deal of success in the past in the refrigerated soymilk and organic foods industries. Our Silk soymilk and our Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to slow and could cause us to lose sales. Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Hersheys, Borden, Pet, Folgers, Land OLakes and others. In some cases, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. 48 Table of Contents We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our high debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions, impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, and expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our net income. If we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit facilities, we may default under them. Upon default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. These swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges against variable interest rate exposure. The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements in effect as of December 31, 2003: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 1.48% to 6.69% December 2004 $ 650 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 The following table summarizes our various interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts (in millions) 6.23% June 2003 $ 50 4.29% to 4.69% December 2003 275 4.01% to 6.69% December 2004 275 5.20% to 6.74% December 2005 400 6.78% December 2006 75 In 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that provided hedges for euro denominated loans, which were repaid and replaced with euro denominated borrowings under our senior credit facility. The following table describes this swap agreement as of December 31, 2003 and 2002: Fixed Interest Rates Expiration Date Notional Amounts 5.60% November 2004 12 million euros (approximately $15.1 million as of December 31, 2003 and $12.6 million as of December 31, 2002) We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our credit facilities falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We incurred $25.6 million of 49 Table of Contents additional interest expense, net of taxes, during 2003 as a result of interest rates on our variable rate debt falling below the agreed upon interest rate on our existing swap agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. A majority of our debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency We are exposed to foreign currency risk due to operating cash flows and various financial instruments that are denominated in foreign currencies. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro and the British pound. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the analysis indicated that such foreign currency exchange rate change would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 50 Table of Contents 
 
