Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Materials and Other Inputs. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the net sales price of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation with fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging, and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on the Dairy Groups profitability. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation, and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation, led by us. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk and cream decreased by over 10% from 1990 to the end of 2007, although total consumption has remained relatively flat over the same period due to population increases. Therefore, volume growth across the industry generally remains flat to modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure caused by the ongoing consolidation among food retailers, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and cost reduction in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. Historically, our Dairy Group volume growth has paced with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition, and service quality. Our Dairy Group has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, and quality, while competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference, and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. For more information about our Dairy Group, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. WhiteWave Our WhiteWave segment develops, manufactures, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products; Horizon Organic dairy and other products; International Delight coffee creamers; LAND OLAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. WhiteWaves net sales totaled $1.37 billion in 2007 or 12% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, 3 Table of Contents convenience stores and foodservice outlets. The following charts graphically depict WhiteWaves net sales by brand and customer: (1) Includes Horizon Organic and The Organic Cow organic dairy products. WhiteWave sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. The majority of WhiteWaves products including sales to its largest customer Wal Mart including its subsidiaries, such as Sams Club, are sold pursuant to customer purchase orders or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. Wal Mart accounted for approximately 14.1% of WhiteWaves net sales in 2007. Approximately 70% of the products sold by WhiteWave were manufactured in facilities operated by either WhiteWave or our Dairy Group. The remaining 30% were manufactured by third party manufacturers under processing agreements. WhiteWave currently operates six manufacturing facilities. The majority of WhiteWaves products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. The primary raw material used in our soy based products is organic soybeans. Organic soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these products. We have entered into supply agreements for organic soybeans, which we believe will meet our needs in 2008. These agreements provide pricing at fixed levels. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. We also produce approximately 20% of our own organic raw milk needs in the U.S. at two organic farms that we own and operate and an additional farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of one to two years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. The primary raw material used in our LAND OLAKES and other non organic dairy products is raw milk. Other raw materials used in WhiteWaves products, such as palm oil, flavorings, organic sugar and packaging materials, are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these materials. Certain of these raw materials are purchased under long term contracts in order to obtain lower costs. The prices of raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. For more information, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Materials and Other Inputs. WhiteWave has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, WhiteWave pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a 4 Table of Contents particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and WhiteWave has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. However, our soy and organic food products compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. For more information about WhiteWave, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Current Business Strategy The Companys strategy historically has been centered on growth through acquisitions and aligning our operating activities with a consolidating customer base. Since 1994, we have completed over 40 acquisitions, increasing our net sales from $150 million to more than $11.8 billion. Based on relative net sales, we are greater than five times the size of our next closest competitor in the fluid dairy industry. We have acquired in excess of 150 manufacturing facilities over the last 13 years and have made efforts to consolidate production activity within the more efficient operations, closing in excess of 50 facilities since 1994. Our portfolio of manufacturing and distribution assets enable the Company to offer products across a variety of product categories ranging from short shelf life (less than 20 days) to extended shelf life (45 to 60 days) to shelf stable products (6 to 12 months). We believe that our Dairy Group has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. In addition, our nationally branded products maintain significant market share positions in the soy based beverage, organic dairy, and creamer categories. To ensure that we capture the benefits of our scale and create lasting competitive advantages in the food and beverage industry, we are aligning our leadership teams and strategy around distinct supply chain and delivery channels. In connection with this direction, beginning in 2008, we will disaggregate the Dairy Group into a DSD fluid and ice cream platform and a Morningstar platform. The strategy for these platforms, as well as our WhiteWave platform is summarized as follows: DSD Platform Our DSD platform consists of over 80 manufacturing facilities operating largely based on local and regional customer and competitor dynamics. The DSD fluid and ice cream platform is focused on high velocity DSD products where delivering low cost and high levels of customer service are critical to success. The DSD products are currently offered under more than 50 regional branded and private label names. While a portion of our ice cream products are distributed through customer warehouse delivery channels, the supply chain remains highly integrated within our DSD system. The DSD platform strategy includes: Being the lowest cost, most effective manufacturer in every market that we compete; Being the most capable and lowest cost refrigerated DSD system in every market where we compete. In doing so, we must operate as a national rather than regional system. Leveraging our DSD system to distribute the full range of Dean Foods products; and Providing selling capability in every market that drives growth. We are currently evaluating our entire DSD supply chain to identify opportunities to optimize our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. The development and execution of this initiative will be a multi year effort and will require investments in people, systems, tools, and facilities. As one component of this initiative, we will evaluate the breadth of our brands and trademarks with the intent of placing greater sales, marketing, and innovation focus on those brands that will drive growth. In 2007, in excess of $100 million of White Wave products were distributed through the Dairy Groups DSD and warehouse delivery channels. We believe there are opportunities to increase the distribution of WhiteWave and Morningstar products through the DSD system, in addition to products of other processors. 5 Table of Contents Morningstar Platform Our Morningstar platform is one of the leading U.S. manufacturers of private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream and cottage cheese. Its supply chain is extensive both in respect to its manufacturing and refrigerated distribution capability, as well as its nationwide geographic footprint. Morningstars 15 manufacturing facilities and 2 distribution locations enable us to cost effectively service customers nationwide. We service a diverse customer base, which include traditional grocery, mass merchandisers, foodservice, and convenience store customers. The Morningstar platform strategy includes: Being the lowest cost, national extended shelf life dairy supply chain in the industry; Providing our customers with innovative private label products and category solutions to help them grow their business; Building a highly effective value based selling organization; and Supplying low cost, high quality extended shelf life and cultured products through our DSD system. Effective on January 1, 2008, we aligned the reporting of our Morningstar and WhiteWave businesses given the similarity of their supply chains. As part of this change in alignment, we are evaluating the entire Morningstar and WhiteWave platforms to identify opportunities to increase the leverage of our manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, and customer service capabilities. WhiteWave Platform Our WhiteWave platform enjoys a robust portfolio of premium national food and beverage brands including Horizon Organic, Silk, International Delight, and LAND OLAKES. The WhiteWave platform strategy includes: Growing our core business through consumer insight leading to superior marketing; Achieving cost excellence by operating low cost owned facilities and co packaging arrangements; Accelerating growth in new businesses by segmenting consumers and innovating in value added products; and Building a highly effective branded refrigerated warehouse selling organization. During 2007, we completed the consolidation of the three operating units that comprise our WhiteWave platform. We also completed the full implementation of the SAP enterprise operating system onto all brands and operating facilities. Additionally, we completed the transition of our selling organization from a predominately broker managed system to a hybrid direct selling and brokered model. The implementation of these moves across WhiteWave will enable us to more effectively and efficiently sell and distribute our brands across our supply chain. Developments Since January 1, 2007 Conventional Milk Environment In 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of our raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred weight, a 69% increase from that same period a year ago. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. 6 Table of Contents At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to flatten compared to prior year levels. Organic Milk Environment In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing in excess of 30% in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 18% for the year when compared to similar periods in the prior year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Credit Facility and Special Cash Dividend On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet through the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The completion of the new senior credit facility and special cash dividend resulted in the write off of $13.5 million of financing costs, and $6.2 million of professional fees and expenses, respectively. In addition, we entered into an amendment and restatement of our receivables facility that extended the facility termination date from November 15, 2009 to March 30, 2010. See note 9 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Management Changes and Alignment We continued to build our leadership team in 2007 with key additions in the area of supply chain, human resources, sales, and marketing. On November 5, 2007, Gregg Tanner joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Before joining our Company, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations, at the Hershey Company. Prior to his role at Hershey, Mr. Tanner held the position of Senior Vice President, Retail Supply Chain at ConAgra Foods, as well as various positions at the Quaker Oats Company and Ralston Purina. On June 18, 2007, Paul Moskowitz joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Moskowitz served as the Chief People Officer for Pizza Hut, a division of Yum! Brands. Prior to his role at Pizza Hut he served in various Human Resources roles with Yum! Brands, Darden Restaurants, Brinker International, and Towers Perrin. In late 2007 and into 2008, we began to align our leadership teams and the development of strategic initiatives around more clearly defined business platforms. Chris Sliva was promoted to Chief Operating Officer of Morningstar. Mr. Sliva joined the Company in 2006 as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Customer Officer at WhiteWave. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Sliva served in various positions at Eastman Kodak Corporation, Fort James Corporation, and Procter Gamble. Mr. Sliva reports to Joe Scalzo, President and Chief Executive Officer of Morningstar and WhiteWave. 7 Table of Contents Harrald Kroeker was promoted to President, Direct Store Delivery Group. Mr. Kroeker joined the Company in November 2006. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Kroeker served in various executive capacities at Pepsi Bottling Group, Polaroid, and Procter Gamble. Greg McKelvey was promoted to Senior Vice President, Dean Foods Strategy and Marketing Services. Mr. McKelvey joined the Company in 2005 as the Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning for our WhiteWave segment. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. McKelvey was a consultant with Bain Company. As part of these initiatives, we eliminated a number of positions in the Dairy Group, including that held by Alan Bernon, the former President of the Dairy Group. Over time, we believe this management alignment between Morningstar and WhiteWave will leverage the manufacturing, innovation, and systems infrastructure of both Morningstar and WhiteWave across an extended warehouse platform. Mr. Tanner, Mr. Moskowitz, Mr. Kroeker and Mr. McKelvey report directly to Gregg Engles, our Chairman and CEO. Centralization of Finance and Transaction Processing Activities In late 2006, we began centralizing our finance and transaction processing activities within five regional finance and transaction processing centers across the United States, the largest of which is located in Dallas, Texas. Centralizing these activities will allow us to better leverage our people, systems, and tools. It also will provide the foundational base to execute the platform strategies. All five of the facilities were operational as of the end of 2007. We will substantially complete the centralization of the finance and payroll processing activities in the first half of 2008. We will continue to centralize specific processing activities, largely accounts payable, through 2009. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2007, we recorded a charge of $34.4 million as part of our ongoing supply chain and cost savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $28.1 million related to our Dairy Group operations for realignment of management positions, workforce reductions, and the closing of three Dairy Group facilities and other previously announced plans. We also recorded a charge of $6.3 million related to the previously announced centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities. These charges include the following costs: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value and held for sale. We expect to incur additional charges related to all of these restructuring plans of $6.5 million through the end of 2008. Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations Friendship Dairies On March 13, 2007, our Dairy Group completed the acquisition of Friendship Dairies, Inc., a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of cultured dairy products primarily in the northeastern United States. This transaction expanded our cultured dairy product capabilities and added a strong regional brand. We paid approximately $130 million, including transaction costs, for the purchase of Friendship Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our senior credit facility. Other Acquisitions We have noted an increase in opportunities to acquire additional dairy manufacturing facilities. We attribute this recent trend largely to the rising commodity prices and competitive environment. In early 8 Table of Contents 2008, we acquired two manufacturing facilities that supplement our DSD platform. These facilities were acquired from Wells Dairy, Inc. and SUPERVALU INC. The purchase price of these two facilities aggregated to approximately $50 million. As we move forward, we may choose to make additional acquisitions of attractively valued and strategically desirable facilities. Iberian Operations Our former Iberian operations included the manufacture and distribution of private label and branded milk across Spain and Portugal. On September 14, 2006, we completed the sale of our operations in Spain for net cash proceeds of approximately $96 million. In connection with the sale of our operations in Spain, we entered into an agreement to sell our Portuguese operations (that comprised the remainder of our Iberian operations) for $11.4 million subject to regulatory approvals and working capital settlements. We completed the sale of our Portuguese operations in January 2007. The Iberian operations have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had the following employees: No. of % of Employees Total Dairy Group 23,679 93 % WhiteWave 1,359 5 Corporate 547 2 Total 25,585 100 % Approximately 37% of the Dairy Groups and 38% of WhiteWaves employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with these organizations is satisfactory. Government Regulation Public Health As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations, specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell, and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorizes regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe our facilities and manufacturing practices comply with all material government regulations. 9 Table of Contents Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Ammonia, a refrigerant used extensively in our operations, is considered an extremely hazardous substance pursuant to U.S. federal environmental laws due to its toxicity. Also, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels permitted under local regulations. As a result, certain of our subsidiaries are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct wastewater pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain above and under ground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. These tanks are periodically inspected to determine compliance with applicable regulations. We are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to maintain compliance of these tanks. Upon removal of these tanks, it is generally necessary to restore the site to its original condition. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that we are in material compliance with the environmental regulations applicable to our business. We do not expect environmental compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position in the foreseeable future. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk contains primarily raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. The federal government establishes separate minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat, and we pay our suppliers separate prices for the raw skim milk and butterfat based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices are calculated by economic formula based on supply and demand and vary depending on the processors geographic location or sales area and the type of product manufactured using the raw product. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for butterfat and raw skim milk that is processed into milk) and Class II raw skim milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw skim milk that is processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government by the 23rd day of the immediately preceding month. Class II butterfat prices for each month are announced on or before the fifth day after the end of that month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. A few states also have retail pricing requirements. Organic Regulations Our organic products are required to meet the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act (OFPA) and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. These regulations require strict methods of production for organic food products and limit the ability of food processors to use non organic or synthetic materials in the production of organic foods or in the raising of organic livestock. We believe that we are in compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. 10 Table of Contents Brief History We commenced operations in 1988 through a predecessor entity. Our original operations consisted solely of a packaged ice business. Since then the following activity has occurred: December 1993 Acquired Suiza Dairy Corporation, a regional dairy processor located in Puerto Rico. We then began acquiring other local and regional U.S. dairy processors, growing our dairy business rapidly primarily through acquisitions. April 1996 Completed our initial public offering under our former name Suiza Foods Corporation and began trading on NASDAQ National Market. January 1997 Completed a secondary offering. March 1997 Began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. August 1997 Acquired Franklin Plastics, Inc., a company engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling plastic containers. After the acquisition, we began acquiring other companies in the plastic packaging industry. November 1997 Acquired Morningstar Foods Inc., whose business was a predecessor to our WhiteWave segment. This was our first acquisition of a company with national brands. April 1998 Sold our packaged ice operations. May 1998 Acquired Continental Can Company, making us one of the largest plastic packaging companies in the United States. July 1999 Sold all of our U.S. plastic packaging operations to Consolidated Container Company in exchange for cash and a minority interest in the purchaser. January 2000 Acquired Southern Foods Group, L.P., the third largest dairy processor in the United States, making us the largest dairy processor in the country. February 2000 Acquired Leche Celta, one of the largest dairy processors in Spain. March and May 2000 Sold our European packaging operations. December 2001 Acquired Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean) and changed our name from Suiza Foods Corporation to Dean Foods Company. Legacy Dean changed its name to Dean Holding Company. May 2002 Acquired the portion of White Wave, Inc. that we did not already own. January 2004 Acquired the portion of Horizon Organic that we did not already own. 2005 Consolidated our nationally branded business, including White Wave, Horizon Organic and Dean National Brand Group into a single operating unit called WhiteWave. June 2005 Spun off our Specialty Foods Group segment to our shareholders. September 2006 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Spain. January 2007 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Portugal. March 2007 Acquired Friendship Dairies, one of the largest dairy products manufacturer, marketer and distributor in the northeastern United states. April 2007 Paid a special cash dividend of $15 per share to our shareholders. January 2008 Acquisition of a fresh fluid facility from Wells Dairy, Inc. February 2008 Acquisition of a fresh fluid facility from SUPERVALU INC. Minority Holdings We own an approximately 25% interest, on a fully diluted basis, in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our 11 Table of Contents U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners controls CCC through a majority ownership interest. Less than 1% of CCC is owned indirectly by Alan Bernon, a member of our Board of Directors, and his brother Peter Bernon. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control two of the eight seats on CCCs Management Committee. We also have entered into various supply agreements with CCC pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. In 2007, we spent $264.0 million on products purchased from CCC. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our investment in CCC. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We furnish our stockholders with annual reports containing audited financial statements. In addition, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees and directors, is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations Item 1A. Risk Factors We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See Part II Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. As a result of the recapitalization of our balance sheet on April 2, 2007, we entered into a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility. This transaction significantly increased our leverage profile and interest expense. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; 12 Table of Contents impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Throughout 2007, significant increases in raw material and other input costs, as well as the oversupply of raw organic milk, increased our working capital requirements, decreased our operating profitability, and limited our ability in the near term to reduce the borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. As of December 31, 2007, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, our leverage ratio was 5.95. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 as of December 31, 2008. Failure to comply with the leverage ratio, or any other financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables facility. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. In addition, we may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, our actual performance levels under this reduced leverage ratio or our other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Changes in Our Credit Ratings May Have a Negative Impact on Our Financing Cost or the Availability of Capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard Poors and Moodys, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. During 2007, in response to our increased leverage and the difficult dairy operating environment, both Standard poors and Moodys downgraded our debt ratings. A further downgrade could increase our cost of capital and reduce our access to financial markets. Availability and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Raw skim milk is the most significant raw material that we use in our Dairy Group. Organic raw milk, organic soybeans and sugar are significant inputs utilized by WhiteWave. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand, and in some cases, governmental regulation. In 2007, we experienced rapidly rising, all time high prices in conventional raw milk prices. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove prices for raw conventional milk sharply higher in 2007. The rising milk prices increased our costs from shrink, as lost product became more costly. At the same time, the pricing dynamics in the dairy industry resulted in sharply reduced profit contribution from our sales of excess cream to third parties. There continues to be significant volatility in the pricing of conventional raw milk and we anticipate that volatility to continue throughout 2008. In many cases we are able to adjust our pricing to reflect changes in raw material costs; however, volatility in the cost of our raw materials can adversely affect our performance and erode our profit margins as price changes often lag changes in costs. Furthermore, cost increases may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers. While we currently expect conventional raw milk prices to decline in 2008 from the levels experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007, we expect the prices to remain higher than in past periods. High raw material costs can put downward pressure on our margins and our volumes. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, strong economic incentives for conventional farmers to become 13 Table of Contents organic plus a change in the organic farm transition rules caused supply to increase significantly in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to sell their supply in the organic milk market. The market for organic raw milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an undersupply situation, with some farmers moving back to conventional due to high feed costs and attractive prices being paid for conventional milk. These factors could increase costs and cause our sales of Horizon Organic to decline as consumers look for lower cost alternatives. Uncertainties surrounding organic milk supply, increased costs associated with organic farming, and competitive pressures could continue to negatively impact the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. Because our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to customers through its direct store delivery system, we are a large consumer of fuel. Similarly, WhiteWave is impacted by the costs of petroleum based products through the use of common carriers in delivering their products. We also utilize a significant amount of resin, which is the primary component used in our plastic bottles. During 2007, the prices of resin decreased slightly, while diesel prices were largely unchanged. Future increases in fuel and resin prices may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, resin supplies have from time to time been insufficient to meet demand. A disruption in our ability to secure an adequate resin supply could adversely affect our operations. We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Multi Year Initiatives. We have several multi year initiatives underway, which we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. These initiatives include the following: centralizing certain of our functions, including our finance and analytical systems; and optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives, or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the market place, lose customers and experience declines in market share. Centralization of certain functions. We are currently realigning certain functions of our business in order to further streamline our organization, improve efficiency and better meet the needs of our customers. These initiatives involve centralizing certain of our purchasing, selling, support and decision making and brand building activities, which we anticipate will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manage our business. Our failure to successfully manage these transitions could cause us to incur unexpected costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the impact of these actions on our earnings growth and profitability may be influenced by factors including but not limited to: (1) our ability to retain and attract key employees and operating officers; (2) our ability to execute these initiatives in a cost effective manner; (3) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers; and (4) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our suppliers. Realignment of our financial and analytical systems. In 2007, we centralized many of the administrative functions that were historically accomplished at the plant level into regional accounting and transaction centers, which we anticipate will increase quality, capability, and standardization across the business. However, we must continue to improve and standardize our systems and processes to deliver the data we need to accurately analyze, plan and forecast our business and capitalize on opportunities. Optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Due to the perishable nature of its products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers stores in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that our DSD system is one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. We also have an extensive network of manufacturing plants across the country. These plants and their related distribution systems were acquired by us over time and are not yet designed or configured to fully maximize productivity and efficiency. We are evaluating our entire supply chain and anticipate over the next several years that we will realign our manufacturing and distribution capabilities and will close additional facilities. However, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to streamline and upgrade our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, we could be faced with unrealized profit potential through waste and inefficiency, leaving us vulnerable to technological obsolescence, low returns on our capital investments, and a decline in our profitability. 14 Table of Contents We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Innovative Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we have increased our innovation efforts and spend in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global competitors with greater resources with whom we compete in these areas. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our innovation strategy will not succeed. Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results. The Consolidation of Retail Customers May Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Our customers such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. Some of these customers are vertically integrated and may use shelf space currently used for our products for their private label products. In addition, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. The Loss of One of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sams Club, accounted for approximately 17.9% of consolidated net sales during 2007, consisting of 18.5% of the Dairy Groups net sales and 14.1% of WhiteWaves net sales. During 2007, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 30.0% of our consolidated net sales, or approximately 31.2% of the Dairy Groups net sales and 23.4% of WhiteWaves net sales. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. In addition, we do not have agreements with many of our largest customers, and most of the agreements that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. Finally, many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current intensely competitive environment. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in our Dairy Group, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. Our Products Could Attract Increased Competitive Activity, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales. Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. The increase in popularity of soy and organic milks is also attracting private label competitors who sell their products at a lower 15 Table of Contents price. The success of private label brands could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other lower priced products, which could result in a reduction of sales of our branded products. Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestl CoffeeMate business. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestl could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight business. We May Experience Liabilities or Negative Effects on Our Reputation as a Result of Product Recalls, Product Injuries or Other Legal Claims. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of legal risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. The Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits. We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Borden, LAND OLAKES, Pet, and others. In some cases, we have invested significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Pension Costs Could Increase at a Higher Than Anticipated Rate. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Disruption of Our Supply Chain Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent the we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse affect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Dairy Group Our Dairy Group currently conducts its manufacturing operations within the following 100 facilities, most of which are owned: Birmingham, Alabama (2) Newport, Kentucky Marietta, Ohio Decatur, Alabama New Orleans, Louisiana Springfield, Ohio Buena Park, California (2) Shreveport, Louisiana Toledo, Ohio City of Industry, California Bangor, Maine Belleville, Pennsylvania Fullerton, California Franklin, Massachusetts Erie, Pennsylvania Gustine, California Lynn, Massachusetts Landsdale, Pennsylvania Hayward, California Mendon, Massachusetts Lebanon, Pennsylvania Riverside, California Evart, Michigan Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Tulare, California Flint, Michigan Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Delta, Colorado Grand Rapids, Michigan Florence, South Carolina Denver, Colorado (3) Livonia, Michigan Spartanburg, South Carolina Englewood, Colorado Marquette, Michigan Sioux Falls, South Dakota Greeley, Colorado Thief River Falls, Minnesota Athens, Tennessee Newington, Connecticut White Bear Lake, Minnesota Kingsport, Tennessee Miami, Florida Woodbury, Minnesota Nashville, Tennessee(2) Orange City, Florida Billings, Montana Dallas, Texas(2) Orlando, Florida Great Falls, Montana El Paso, Texas Baxley, Georgia Kalispell, Montana Houston, Texas Braselton, Georgia Lincoln, Nebraska Lubbock, Texas Hilo, Hawaii Las Vegas, Nevada McKinney, Texas Honolulu, Hawaii Reno, Nevada San Antonio, Texas Boise, Idaho Burlington, New Jersey Sulphur Springs, Texas(2) Belvidere, Illinois Albuquerque, New Mexico Waco, Texas Chemung, Illinois Friendship, New York Orem, Utah Huntley, Illinois New Delhi, New York Salt Lake City, Utah OFallon, Illinois Rensselaer, New York Portsmouth, Virginia Rockford, Illinois Hickory, North Carolina Richmond, Virginia Huntington, Indiana High Point, North Carolina Springfield, Virginia Rochester, Indiana Winston Salem, North Carolina Richland Center, Wisconsin LeMars, Iowa Bismarck, North Dakota Sheboygan, Wisconsin Louisville, Kentucky Tulsa, Oklahoma Murray, Kentucky Each of the Dairy Groups manufacturing facilities also serves as a distribution facility. In addition, our Dairy Group has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. The Dairy Groups headquarters are located in Dallas, Texas in leased premises. WhiteWave WhiteWave currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following six facilities, all but one of which is owned: City of Industry, California Jacksonville, Florida 18 Table of Contents Bridgeton, New Jersey Cedar City, Utah Mt. Crawford, Virginia Aberystwyth, United Kingdom WhiteWave also owns two organic dairy farms located in Paul, Idaho and Kennedyville, Maryland and leases an organic dairy farm in Portales, New Mexico. WhiteWaves headquarters are located in leased premises in Broomfield, Colorado. Corporate Our corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, Texas 75201. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not party to, nor are our properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings other than set forth below. However, we are party from time to time to certain claims, litigation, audits and investigations. We believe that we have established adequate reserves to satisfy any potential liability we may have under all such claims, litigations, audits and investigations that are currently pending. In our opinion, the settlement of any such currently pending or threatened matter is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We were named, among several defendants, in two purported class action antitrust complaints filed on July 5, 2007. The complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, Columbia Division, and allege generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price Southeastern dairy farmers are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities. A third purported class action was filed on August 9, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greenville Division. The allegations contained in this third complaint are similar to those in the first and second complaints except that the new suit added a claim that defendants conduct also artificially inflated retail prices for direct milk purchasers. Two additional class actions were filed on August 27, 2007 and October 3, 2007 in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greenville Division. The allegations in these complaints are similar to those in the first and second complaints. On January 7, 2008, a United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered the consolidation of all of the pending cases to the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greenville Division. All actions on all pending cases are stayed pending an initial pretrial conference and status conference scheduled for March 11, 2008. We believe that the claims against us are without merit and we will vigorously defend the actions. On January 18, 2008, our subsidiary, Kohler Mix Specialties, LLC (Kohler), was named as defendant in a civil complaint filed in the Superior Court, Judicial District of Hartford. The plaintiff in the case is the Commissioner of Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut. The complaint alleges generally that Kohler improperly discharged wastewater into the waters of the State of Connecticut, and bypassed certain wastewater treatment equipment. The plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties with respect to the claims. We are currently investigating the matter and the claims presented. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted by us during the fourth quarter of 2007 to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. 19 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DF. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At February 22, 2008, there were 4,664 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2006: First Quarter $ 39.69 $ 37.02 Second Quarter 39.79 34.70 Third Quarter 42.81 35.97 Fourth Quarter 43.51 39.36 2007: First Quarter 48.31 41.26 Second Quarter 47.33 31.00 Third Quarter 31.85 24.30 Fourth Quarter 27.77 24.51 2008: First Quarter (through February 22, 2008) 28.90 23.89 We have not historically declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. However, on April 2, 2007, we declared a special cash dividend of $15 per share, which decreased our stock price. We have no current plans to pay a cash dividend in the future. No adjustment has been made to the historical stock prices related to the impact of the cash dividend. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior credit facility. A summary of the increases in our stock repurchase program, as authorized by our Board of Directors, is shown below. Authorized Cumulative Increase in Stock Authorized Stock Date of Authorization Repurchase Program Repurchase Program (In millions) September 15, 1998 $ 100 $ 100 September 28, 1999 100 200 November 17, 1999 100 300 May 19, 2000 100 400 November 2, 2000 100 500 January 8, 2003 150 650 February 12, 2003 150 800 September 7, 2004 200 1,000 November 2, 2004 100 1,100 August 10, 2005 300 1,400 November 2, 2005 300 1,700 May 3, 2006 300 2,000 November 29, 2006 300 2,300 We made no share repurchases in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, $218.7 million was available for repurchases under this program (excluding fees and commissions). Repurchased shares are treated as effectively retired in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2007 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales $ 11,821,903 $ 10,098,555 $ 10,174,718 $ 9,725,548 $ 8,146,103 Cost of sales 9,084,318 7,358,676 7,591,548 7,338,138 5,985,527 Gross profit(1) 2,737,585 2,739,879 2,583,170 2,387,410 2,160,576 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,721,617 1,648,860 1,581,028 1,472,112 1,309,498 General and administrative 419,518 409,225 380,490 355,772 330,751 Amortization of intangibles 6,744 5,983 6,106 5,105 3,576 Facility closing and reorganization costs 34,421 25,116 35,451 24,575 11,787 Other operating (income) expense(2) 1,688 (5,899 ) (68,719 ) Total operating costs and expenses 2,183,988 2,089,184 2,003,075 1,851,665 1,586,893 Operating income 553,597 650,695 580,095 535,745 573,683 Other (income) expense: Interest expense(3) 333,202 194,547 160,230 191,788 166,897 Financing charges on trust issued preferred securities 14,164 Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated affiliates (244 ) Other (income) expense, net 5,926 435 (683 ) (722 ) (2,708 ) Total other expense 339,128 194,982 159,547 191,066 178,109 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 214,469 455,713 420,548 344,679 395,574 Income taxes 84,007 175,450 163,898 138,472 159,386 Income from continuing operations 130,462 280,263 256,650 206,207 236,188 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 608 (1,978 ) 38,763 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 283 (52,871 ) 14,793 47,514 85,297 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 131,353 225,414 310,206 253,721 321,485 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax(4) (1,552 ) Net income $ 131,353 $ 225,414 $ 308,654 $ 253,721 $ 321,485 Cash dividend paid per share $ 15.00 $ $ $ $ Basic earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 1.00 $ 2.09 $ 1.75 $ 1.33 $ 1.63 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.01 (0.41 ) 0.36 0.31 0.58 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.01 ) Net income $ 1.01 $ 1.68 $ 2.10 $ 1.64 $ 2.21 Diluted earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 0.95 $ 2.01 $ 1.67 $ 1.28 $ 1.53 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.01 (0.40 ) 0.35 0.30 0.53 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.01 ) Net income $ 0.96 $ 1.61 $ 2.01 $ 1.58 $ 2.06 Average common shares: Basic 130,310,811 133,938,777 146,673,322 154,635,979 145,201,412 Diluted 137,291,998 139,762,104 153,438,636 160,704,576 160,695,670 Other data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(5) 1.56 x 2.87 x 3.01 x 2.69 x 2.89x 21 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 7,033,356 $ 6,770,173 $ 7,050,884 $ 7,756,368 $ 6,992,536 Long term debt(6) 5,272,351 3,355,851 3,386,848 3,214,269 2,777,928 Other long term liabilities 320,256 238,682 225,479 321,252 256,371 Total stockholders equity(7) 51,267 1,809,399 1,902,213 2,692,985 2,567,390 (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. (2) Results for 2007 include a loss of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our tofu business. Results for 2004 include a gain of $5.9 million primarily related to the settlement of litigation. Results for 2003 include a gain of $66.2 million on the sale of our frozen pre whipped topping and frozen creamer operations and a gain of $2.5 million related to the divestiture of 11 facilities in 2001 in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean. (3) Results for 2007 and 2004 include a charge of $13.5 million and $32.6 million, respectively, to write off financing costs related to the refinancing of our senior credit facility. (4) In the fourth quarter of 2005, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. If FIN 47 had always been in effect, we would have expensed this amount for depreciation in periods prior to January 1, 2005. (5) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (6) Includes the current portion of long term debt. (7) On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet with the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders on record as of March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Interpretation Number (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, as a result we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill, and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. The balance at December 31, 2006 reflects a $14.8 million reduction related to the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The reduction had no impact on net income. 22 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Our Dairy Group segment is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. Our WhiteWave Foods (WhiteWave) segment markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk , Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and other fluid dairy products. White Waves Rachels Organic dairy products brand is the second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom. Dairy Group Our Dairy Group segment is our largest segment, with approximately 88% of our consolidated net sales in 2007. Our Dairy Group manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, cultured dairy products and juices to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of the Dairy Groups products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers stores in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that our Dairy Group has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. The Dairy Group sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by the Dairy Groups corporate sales department. Most of the Dairy Groups customers, including its largest customer, purchase products from the Dairy Group either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation led by us. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk and cream decreased by over 10% from 1990 to the end of 2007, although total consumption has remained relatively flat over the same period due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains flat to modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure caused by the ongoing consolidation among food retailers, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and cost reduction in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. Historically, our Dairy Group volume growth has paced with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition, and service quality. Our Dairy Group has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service and quality, while competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. In some cases the Dairy Group pays fees to customers for shelf space or supply agreements. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Our WhiteWave segment net sales are approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave develops, manufactures, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. WhiteWave also sells The Organic Cow organic dairy products. We license the LAND OLAKES name from third parties. WhiteWave sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. The majority of WhiteWaves products, including sales to its 23 Table of Contents largest customer, are sold pursuant to customer purchase orders or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. WhiteWave has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, WhiteWave pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and WhiteWave has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. However, our soy and organic food products compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. Recent Developments Conventional Milk Environment In 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Companys raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred weight, a 69% increase from that same period a year ago. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to flatten compared to prior year levels. Organic Milk Environment In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing in excess of 30% in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 18% for the year when compared to similar periods in the prior year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Credit Facility and Special Cash Dividend On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet through the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The completion of the new senior credit facility and special cash dividend resulted in the write off of $13.5 million of financing costs and $6.2 million of professional fees and expenses, respectively. In addition, we entered into an amendment and restatement of our receivables facility that 24 Table of Contents extended the facility termination date from November 15, 2009 to March 30, 2010. See note 9 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Management Changes and Alignment We continued to build our leadership team in 2007 with key additions in the area of supply chain, human resources, sales, and marketing. On November 5, 2007, Gregg Tanner joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Before joining our Company, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations, at the Hershey Company. Prior to his role at Hershey, Mr. Tanner held the position of Senior Vice President , Retail Supply Chain at ConAgra Foods, as well as various positions at the Quaker Oats Company and Ralston Purina. On June 18, 2007, Paul Moskowitz joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Moskowitz served as the Chief People Officer for Pizza Hut, a division of Yum! Brands. Prior to his role at Pizza Hut he served in various Human Resources roles with Yum! Brands, Darden Restaurants, Brinker International, and Towers Perrin. In late 2007 and into 2008, we began to align our leadership teams and the development of strategic initiatives around more clearly defined business platforms. Chris Sliva was promoted to Chief Operating Officer of Morningstar. Mr. Sliva joined the Company in 2006 as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Customer Officer at WhiteWave. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Sliva served in various positions at Eastman Kodak Corporation, Fort James Corporation, and Procter Gamble. Mr. Sliva reports to Joe Scalzo, President and Chief Executive Officer of Morningstar and WhiteWave. Harrald Kroeker was promoted to President, Direct Store Delivery Group. Mr. Kroeker joined the Company in November 2006. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Kroeker served in various executive capacities at Pepsi Bottling Group, Polaroid, and Procter Gamble. Greg McKelvey was promoted to Senior Vice President, Dean Foods Strategy and Marketing Services. Mr. McKelvey joined the Company in 2005 as the Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning for our WhiteWave segment. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. McKelvey was a consultant with Bain Company. As part of these initiatives we eliminated a number of positions in the Dairy Group, including that held by Alan Bernon, the former President of the Dairy Group. Over time, we believe this management alignment between Morningstar and WhiteWave will leverage the manufacturing, innovation, and systems infrastructure of both Morningstar and WhiteWave across an extended warehouse platform. Mr. Tanner, Mr. Moskowitz, Mr. Kroeker and Mr. McKelvey report directly to Gregg Engles, our Chairman and CEO. Centralization of Finance and Transaction Processing Activities In late 2006, we began centralizing our finance and transaction processing activities within five regional finance and transaction processing centers across the United States, the largest of which is located in Dallas, Texas. Centralizing these activities will allow us to better leverage our people, systems, and tools. It also will provide the foundational base to execute the platform strategies. All five of the facilities were operational as of the end of 2007. We will substantially complete the centralization of the finance and payroll processing activities in the first half of 2008. We will continue to centralize specific processing activities, largely accounts payable, through 2009. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2007, we recorded a charge of $34.4 million as part of our ongoing costs savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $28.1 million related to our Dairy Group operations for realignment of management positions, workforce reductions, and the closing of three Dairy Group facilities and other previously announced plans. We also recorded a 25 Table of Contents charge of $6.3 million related to the previously announced centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities. These charges include the following costs: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value and held for sale. We expect to incur additional charges related to all of these restructuring plans of $6.5 million through the end of 2008. Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations Friendship Dairies On March 13, 2007, our Dairy Group completed the acquisition of Friendship Dairies, Inc., a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of cultured dairy products primarily in the northeastern United States. This transaction expanded our cultured dairy product capabilities and added a strong regional brand. We paid approximately $130 million, including transaction costs, for the purchase of Friendship Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our senior credit facility. Other Acquisitions We have noted an increase in opportunities to acquire additional dairy manufacturing facilities. We attribute this recent trend largely to the rising commodity prices and competitive environment. In early 2008, we acquired two manufacturing facilities that supplement our DSD platform. These facilities were acquired from Wells Dairy, Inc. and SUPERVALU INC. The purchase price of these facilities aggregated to approximately $50 million. As we move forward, we may choose to make additional acquisitions of attractively valued and strategically desirable facilities. Iberian Operations Our former Iberian operations included the manufacture and distribution of private label and branded milk across Spain and Portugal. On September 14, 2006, we completed the sale of our operations in Spain for net cash proceeds of approximately $96 million. In connection with the sale of our operations in Spain, we entered into an agreement to sell our Portuguese operations (that comprised the remainder of our Iberian operations) for $11.4 million subject to regulatory approvals and working capital settlements. We completed the sale of our Portuguese operations in January 2007. The Iberian operations have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,821.9 100.0 % $ 10,098.6 100.0 % $ 10,174.7 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,084.3 76.8 7,358.7 72.9 7,591.5 74.6 Gross profit(1) 2,737.6 23.2 2,739.9 27.1 2,583.2 25.4 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,721.7 14.6 1,648.9 16.3 1,581.0 15.5 General and administrative 419.5 3.5 409.2 4.1 380.5 3.7 Amortization of intangibles 6.7 0.1 6.0 0.1 6.1 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 34.4 0.3 25.1 0.2 35.5 0.4 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,184.0 18.5 2,089.2 20.7 2,003.1 19.7 Total operating income $ 553.6 4.7 % $ 650.7 6.4 % $ 580.1 5.7 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased 17.1% to $11.82 billion during 2007 from $10.10 billion in 2006. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales $ % Increase/ Increase/ 2007 2006 (Decrease) (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 10,449.4 $ 8,841.8 $ 1,607.6 18.2 % WhiteWave 1,372.5 1,256.8 115.7 9.2 Total $ 11,821.9 $ 10,098.6 $ 1,723.3 17.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2007 vs. 2006 Pricing, Volume Total and Product Increase/ Acquisitions Mix Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Dairy Group $ 98.7 1,508.9 1,607.6 WhiteWave 115.7 115.7 Total $ 98.7 1,624.6 1,723.3 Net sales increased $1.72 billion during 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices, other commodity and distribution costs. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by 23.4% to $9.08 billion in 2007 from $7.36 billion in 2006 primarily due to higher conventional and organic raw milk costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 76.8% in 2007 compared to 72.9% in 2006. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $94.8 million, or 4.5% during 2007 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $72.8 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, outside storage, advertising, and bad debt expense. General and administrative costs increased $10.3 million on higher employee costs, professional fees and infrastructure costs, partially offset by lower employee incentive compensation plans tied to operating performance. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $9.3 million higher than 2006. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 18.5% for 2007 as compared to 20.7% for 2006 primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that outpaced growth in operating costs and expenses. Operating Income For the reasons noted above, operating income was $553.6 million in 2007, a decrease of $97.1 million from 2006 operating income of $650.7 million. Our operating margin was 4.7% in 2007 compared to 6.4% in 2006. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $333.2 million in 2007 from $194.5 million in 2006 primarily due to higher average debt balances and interest rates. The higher debt balances resulted from the recapitalization of our balance sheet in April 2007 and payment of the special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2% in 2007 compared to 38.5% in 2006. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our income tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results by Segment Dairy Group The key performance indicators of our Dairy Group segment are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 10,449.4 100.0 % $ 8,841.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 8,172.0 78.2 6,541.3 74.0 Gross profit 2,277.4 21.8 2,300.5 26.0 Operating costs and expenses 1,652.9 15.8 1,615.8 18.3 Total operating income $ 624.5 6.0 % $ 684.7 7.7 % 28 Table of Contents Net Sales Our Dairy Groups net sales increased $1.61 billion, or 18.2%, in 2007 versus 2006. The change in net sales from 2006 to 2007 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2006 Net sales $ 8,841.8 Acquisitions 98.7 1.1 % Volume (7.1 ) (0.1 ) Pricing and product mix 1,516.0 17.2 2007 Net sales $ 10,449.4 18.2 % The increase in the Dairy Groups net sales was due largely to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on the Dairy Groups profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2007 compared to 2006: Year Ended December 31* 2007 2006 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.14 $ 11.88 52.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 13.47 7.47 80.3 Class I butterfat mover(3)(4) 1.47 1.34 9.7 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(2) 13.67 7.35 86.0 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.48 1.33 11.3 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Materials and Other Inputs for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. In 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Companys raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred weight, a 69% increase from that same period a year ago. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss 29 Table of Contents of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to flatten compared to prior year levels. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by $1.63 billion or 24.9% to $8.17 billion in 2007 from $6.54 billion in 2006 primarily due to higher conventional raw milk costs, resin and packaging, partially offset by lower conversion costs. The higher commodity prices as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat resulted and impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 78.2% in 2007 compared to 74.0% in 2006. Operating Costs and Expenses The Dairy Group operating costs and expenses increased $37.1 million or 2.3% to $1.65 billion during 2007, compared to $1.62 billion during 2006 primarily due to: Higher selling and distribution costs of $48.4 million primarily due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, commissions and bad debt expense, partially offset by lower advertising expense. Lower general and administrative costs of $12.1 million primarily due to lower employee incentive compensation under plans tied to operating performance. Our Dairy Groups operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 15.8% in 2007 from 18.3% in 2006, primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that out paced growth in operating costs and expenses. WhiteWave The key performance indicators of WhiteWave are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,372.5 100.0 % $ 1,256.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 910.9 66.4 816.1 64.9 Gross profit 461.6 33.6 440.7 35.1 Operating costs and expenses 343.2 25.0 308.0 24.5 Total operating income $ 118.4 8.6 % $ 132.7 10.6 % WhiteWave net sales increased $115.7 million, or 9.2%, in 2007 versus 2006. The change in net sales from 2006 to 2007 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2006 Net sales $ 1,256.8 Volume 91.8 7.3 % Pricing and product mix 23.9 1.9 2007 Net sales $ 1,372.5 9.2 % The increase in WhiteWave net sales was principally due to higher volume, pricing on certain products and product mix. Due to an increase in competitive activity and market conditions surrounding organic dairy products the pricing increases related to International Delight, and LAND O LAKES were largely offset by lower pricing on Horizon Organic products. 30 Table of Contents The volume of Silk, International Delight and LAND O LAKES products grew by high single digits in 2007. We believe the increased volumes were due primarily to increased consumer acceptance and more effective marketing of our products. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing in excess of 30% in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 18% for the year when compared to similar periods in the prior year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Cost of sales for WhiteWave increased to $910.9 million in 2007 from $816.1 million in 2006, primarily driven by higher volumes, but also by higher raw material costs, particularly raw conventional milk and raw organic milk, which increased cost of sales by $31.0 million. Cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 66.4% in 2007 from 64.9% in 2006. Operating expenses increased $35.2 million in 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher distribution costs of $17.5 million, driven by higher volumes and rising fuel costs, and by higher marketing spending of $7.6 million, and higher SAP related costs of $5.2 million. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales decreased 0.7% to $10.10 billion during 2006 from $10.17 billion in 2005. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales $ % Increase/ Increase/ 2006 2005 (Decrease) (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 8,841.8 $ 8,999.5 $ (157.7 ) (1.8 )% WhiteWave 1,256.8 1,175.2 81.6 6.9 Total $ 10,098.6 $ 10,174.7 $ (76.1 ) (0.7 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2006 vs. 2005 Pricing, Volume Total and Product Increase/ Acquisitions Mix Changes (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 8.0 $ (165.7 ) $ (157.7 ) WhiteWave 81.6 81.6 Total $ 8.0 $ (84.1 ) $ (76.1 ) Net sales decreased $76.1 million during 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower raw milk costs in our Dairy Group, partly offset by volume growth in the Dairy Group and WhiteWave segments and increased pricing at WhiteWave. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate 31 Table of Contents and maintain our coolers and freezers. In addition, our Dairy Group includes costs associated with transporting our finished products from our manufacturing facilities to our own distribution facilities. Cost of sales decreased by 3.1% to $7.36 billion in 2006 from $7.59 billion in 2005 primarily due to lower raw milk costs in our Dairy Group, partly offset by increased volumes at the Dairy Group and WhiteWave and higher commodity costs at WhiteWave. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to 72.9% in 2006 compared to 74.6% in 2005. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $86.1 million, or 4.3% during 2006 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $67.9 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, advertising and commissions, partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Bad debt expense decreased $10.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. The expense in 2005 was higher due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina and the write off of a receivable from a large customer. General and administrative costs increased $28.7 million on higher employee costs and professional fees. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $10.4 million lower than 2005. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 20.7% for 2006 as compared to 19.7% for 2005. Operating Income For the reasons noted above, our operating income was $650.7 million in 2006, an increase of $70.6 million from 2005 operating income of $580.1 million. Our operating margin was 6.4% in 2006 compared to 5.7% in 2005. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $194.5 million in 2006 from $160.2 million in 2005 primarily due to higher interest rates, including higher interest rates on our $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued on May 17, 2006, and higher average debt outstanding. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.5% in 2006 compared to 39.0% in 2005. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our income tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results by Segment Dairy Group Net Sales The key performance indicators of our Dairy Group segment are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 8,841.8 100.0 % $ 8,999.5 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,541.3 74.0 6,829.1 75.9 Gross profit 2,300.5 26.0 2,170.4 24.1 Operating costs and expenses 1,615.8 18.3 1,523.2 16.9 Total operating income $ 684.7 7.7 % $ 647.2 7.2 % 32 Table of Contents Our Dairy Groups net sales decreased $157.7 million, or 1.8%, in 2006 versus 2005. The change in net sales from 2005 to 2006 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2005 Net sales $ 8,999.5 Acquisitions 8.0 0.1 % Volume 163.4 1.8 Pricing and product mix (329.1 ) (3.7 ) 2006 Net sales $ 8,841.8 (1.8 )% The decrease in the Dairy Groups net sales was due to lower raw milk costs, partly offset by increased volumes. The decrease in the Dairy Groups net sales due to pricing and product mix shown in the above table primarily resulted from decreased pricing due to the pass through of lower raw milk costs in 2006. In general, our Dairy Group changes the prices it charges customers for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw materials and other variable costs fluctuate. Because of competitive pressures, the price increases do not always reflect the entire increase in raw material and other input costs that we may experience. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2006 compared to 2005: Year Ended December 31* 2006 2005 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.88 $ 14.40 (18 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1),(2) 7.47 8.54 (13 )% Class I butterfat mover(3),(4) 1.34 1.76 (24 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1),(2) 7.35 7.74 (5 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3),(4) 1.33 1.72 (23 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Materials and Other Inputs for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Volume sales of all Dairy Group products, excluding the impact of acquisitions, increased 1.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Volume sales of fresh milk, which were approximately 69% of the Dairy Groups 2006 volumes, were up approximately 1.9% for the year compared to USDA data showing a 1.0% increase in total consumption of milk in the U.S. during the year. Cost of Sales Cost of sales decreased by $287.8 million or 4.2% to $6.54 billion in 2006 from $6.83 billion in 2005, primarily due to lower conventional raw milk costs, partially offset by higher resin, packaging and conversion costs. The Dairy Groups cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to 74.0% in 2006 compared to 75.9% in 2005. 33 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses The Dairy Group operating costs and expenses increased $92.6 million or 6.1% to $1.62 billion during 2006, compared to $1.52 billion during 2005 primarily due to: Selling and distribution increased $67.2 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, advertising and commissions partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Bad debt expense decreased in comparison to 2005. The bad debt expense in 2005 was higher due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina and the write off of a receivable from a large customer. General and administrative costs increased $25.1 million on higher employee costs and professional fees. Operating costs and expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 18.3% in 2006 from 16.9% in 2005. WhiteWave The key performance indicators of WhiteWave are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,256.8 100.0 % $ 1,175.2 100.0 % Cost of sales 816.1 64.9 760.7 64.7 Gross profit 440.7 35.1 414.5 35.3 Operating costs and expenses 308.0 24.5 304.7 26.0 Total operating income $ 132.7 10.6 % $ 109.8 9.3 % WhiteWave net sales increased $81.6 million, or 6.9%, in 2006 versus 2005. The change in net sales from 2005 to 2006 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2005 Net sales $ 1,175.2 Volume 27.7 2.3 % Pricing and product mix 53.9 4.6 2006 Net sales $ 1,256.8 6.9 % The increase in WhiteWave net sales was largely due to higher pricing. The two primary drivers of this increase were increased selling prices in response to increased commodity costs and a decline in slotting fees, couponing and certain other promotional costs that are required to be recorded as reductions of net sales. Volume growth in our Silk, Horizon Organic, International Delight, LAND OLAKES and Rachels Organic brands was partly offset by the elimination of certain product offerings in late 2005 and early 2006. We believe increased Horizon Organic and Silk volumes were due primarily to increased consumer acceptance and increased marketing efforts. Cost of sales for WhiteWave increased to $816.1 million in 2006 from $760.7 million in 2005 primarily due to the impact of higher raw material costs, particularly organic raw milk and sugar, which increased cost of sales by approximately $41 million and increased volumes. The cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 64.9% in 2006 from 64.7% in 2005 due to increased selling prices and improved product mix, principally driven by the product rationalization in 2006. Operating expenses increased $3.3 million in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher marketing spending of $6.1 million, higher fuel costs of $3.5 million and SAP related costs of $2.9 million, partly offset by increased distribution efficiencies. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Cash Flow During 2007, we met our working capital needs with cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $350.3 million for 2007 as compared to $561.6 million for 2006, a decrease of $211.3 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was impacted by lower net income and an increase in our working capital of $51.5 million in 2007 compared to a increase of $86.4 million in 2006 due primarily to increase in accounts receivable with a slight offset from accounts payable and accrued expenses. In addition, income taxes payable decreased $32.0 million in 2007 compared to an increase of $11.3 million in 2006 due to the timing of tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $351.9 million in 2007 compared to $248.3 million in 2006, an increase of $103.6 million. We used $132.2 million for acquisitions and $241.4 million for capital expenditures in 2007 compared to $17.2 million and $237.2 million in 2006, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $7.6 million in 2007 compared to $397.0 million in 2006, a decrease of $389.4 million primarily due to the repurchase of stock during 2006. We had no stock repurchases during 2007. We had a net borrowing of $1.90 billion of debt in 2007 compared to the repayment of $53.5 million of debt in 2006 as a result of the recapitalization of our balance sheet through the completion of a new credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. We received $48.1 million in 2007, net of minimum withholding taxes paid from cash proceeds, compared to $32.3 million in 2006 as a result of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. Our employee stock purchase plan was terminated during 2006. Current Debt Obligations Senior Credit Facility On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet through the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007 through a $15 per share special cash dividend. This transaction significantly increased our leverage profile and interest expense. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The blended interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 6.44% at December 31, 2007. However, we had interest rate swap agreements in place that hedged $3.4 billion of our borrowings under the senior credit facility at an average rate of 4.81%, plus the applicable interest rate margin. Interest is payable quarterly or at the end of the applicable interest period. The term loan A is payable in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of: $56.25 million in each of the first eight installments, beginning on June 30, 2009 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments, beginning on June 30, 2011 and ending on April 2, 2012. The term loan B will amortize 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory 35 Table of Contents principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined under our credit agreement). The completion of the new senior credit facility resulted in the write off of $13.5 million of financing costs in the second quarter of 2007. The credit facility contains various financial and other restrictive covenants and requires that we comply with certain financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. The senior credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Significant increases in raw material and other input costs, as well as the oversupply of raw organic milk, have increased our working capital requirements, decreased our operating profitability, and limited our ability in the near term to reduce the borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. Our actual performance levels under the financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt. We currently have a maximum permitted leverage ratio of 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, this leverage ratio was 5.95 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 times as of December 31, 2008. This reduced leverage ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. Failure to comply with the leverage ratio could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables facility. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any default triggers based on our credit rating. At December 31, 2007, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.84 billion under our senior credit facility (compared to $1.76 billion at December 31, 2006), including $3.3 billion in term loan borrowings and $550 million outstanding under the revolving line of credit. At December 31, 2007, there were $174.0 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 22, 2008, $3.79 billion was outstanding under our senior credit facility. In addition to our senior credit facility, we also have a $600 million receivables backed facility subject to a borrowing base formula. The receivables backed facility had $600 million available and drawn at December 31, 2007. The average interest rate on this facility at December 31, 2007 was 6.00%. At February 22, 2008, $584.6 million was outstanding under this facility. 36 Table of Contents Our outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility increased from 2006 to 2007 primarily due to the recapitalization of our balance sheet, the proceeds of which were used for a $15 per share special cash dividend and to refinance all existing debt under the old credit facility, and to pay related fees and expenses. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2007 also included $350 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes and $11.3 million of capital lease and other obligations. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our indebtedness. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2007. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease and purchase obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase Payments Due by Period Lease Obligations(1) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter (In millions) Senior credit facility $ 3,836.8 $ 18.0 $ 186.8 $ 243.0 $ 861.8 $ 830.8 $ 1,696.4 Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 350.0 200.0 150.0 Receivables backed facility 600.0 600.0 Capital lease obligations and other 11.3 7.2 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 1.6 Purchase obligations(3) 832.2 440.8 169.1 108.8 28.3 13.3 71.9 Operating leases 498.6 112.9 99.6 82.6 67.0 51.6 84.9 Interest payments(4) 1,538.7 288.4 283.8 250.0 233.1 169.9 313.4 Total $ 8,167.6 $ 867.3 $ 940.0 $ 1,285.0 $ 1,190.8 $ 1,066.2 $ 2,818.2 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $46.1 million accrued under FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined retirement and other post employee benefit plans. See note 13 for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including organic soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2007. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan also may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or 37 Table of Contents decreased pension costs in future periods. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2007, we recorded non cash pension expense of $5.3 million, of which $4.9 million was attributable to periodic expense and $437,000 was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $8.1 million in 2006, of which $7.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $350,000 was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. The assumed discount rate used to determine plan obligations was 6.40% and 5.85% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In order to select a discount rate for purposes of valuing the plan obligations and fiscal year end disclosure, an analysis is performed in which the duration of projected cash flows from defined benefit and retiree health care plans are matched with a yield curve based on an appropriate universe of high quality corporate bonds that are available. We use the results of the yield curve analysis to select the discount rate that matches the duration and payment stream of the benefits in each plan. In selecting the assumed rate of return on plan assets, we consider past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan, as well as our investment allocation policy and the effect of periodic target asset allocation rebalancing. We rebalance the investments when the allocation is not within the target range. The results are adjusted for the payment of reasonable expenses of the plan from plan assets. We believe these assumptions are appropriate based upon the mix of investments and the long term nature of the plans investments. Plan asset returns were $13.1 million in 2007, a $11.2 million decrease from plan asset returns of $24.3 million in 2006. Based on current projections, 2008 funding requirements will be $22.5 million as compared to $23.2 million for 2007. The postretirement benefit plans are not funded. Based on current projections, 2008 cash requirements to pay benefits for our other postretirement benefit obligations will be $2.3 million as compared to $2.4 million for 2007. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not breached or terminated any of our milk supply agreements with DFA. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and 38 Table of Contents selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2008, we intend to invest a total of approximately $250 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $330 million to $335 million based on current debt levels under our new senior credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $25.2 million. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted leverage ratio of 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, this leverage ratio was 5.95 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 times as of December 31, 2008. This reduced leverage ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2007, approximately $775.7 million was available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Of this amount, approximately $270 million was available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Available borrowings in excess of this amount would require that the financed transaction be accretive to our leverage and coverage ratios. At February 22, 2008, approximately $855.8 million was available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Materials and Other Inputs Dairy Group The primary raw material used in our Dairy Group is raw milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk, and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price, and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). In general, our Dairy Group changes the prices that it charges for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk , other commodity, packaging, and delivery costs fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat based products because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. These factors can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. 39 Table of Contents In 2007, we experienced rapidly rising and all time high prices in conventional raw milk prices. There continues to be significant volatility in the pricing of conventional raw milk and we anticipate that volatility to continue throughout 2008. While we currently expect conventional raw milk prices to decline in 2008 from the levels experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007, we expect the prices to remain high. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the net sales price of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging, and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on the Dairy Groups profitability. However, raw milk, butterfat and cream prices are difficult to predict, and we change our forecasts frequently based on current market activity. The Dairy Group generally has been effective at passing through the changes in the prices of underlying commodities. However, the pass through is not perfect when prices move up steadily over a period of several months. In addition, we generally change the prices we charge on products other than fluid milk on a less frequent basis. Our Dairy Group purchases approximately four million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. Another significant raw material used by our Dairy Group is resin, which is a petroleum based product and used to make plastic bottles. We purchase approximately 27 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The price of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil prices. During 2007, the prices of resin decreased mildly while diesel prices were largely unchanged. We expect prices of both resin and diesel fuel to fluctuate throughout 2008. WhiteWave The primary raw material used in our soy based products is organic soybeans. Organic soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these products. We have entered into supply agreements for organic soybeans, which we believe will meet our needs in 2008. These agreements provide pricing at fixed levels. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. We also produce approximately 20% of our own organic raw milk needs in the U.S. at two organic farms that we own and operate and an additional farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of one to two years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, due to the recent industry efforts to increase the supply of organic raw milk, in 2007 we experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk that has increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep our existing customers, or gain new customers. There are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As the consolidation of the grocery industry continues, we could lose sales if any one or more of our existing customers were to be sold to a chain with captive dairy operations. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current intensely competitive environment. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in our Dairy Group, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our largest customers, and most of the contracts that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. The supply demand imbalance in the organic milk market has increased competition in the marketplace as competitors attempt to stimulate demand through lower retail prices and aggressive distribution expansion. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the sale of our organic products. 40 Table of Contents Tax Rate In 2007, our income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2%. Our tax rate for 2006 was 38.5%. We estimate that our effective tax rate for 2008 will be approximately 39.0%. Changes in the relative profitability of our operating segments, as well as changes to federal and state tax laws may cause the rate to change from historical rates. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2007, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $19.8 million, or 2.2% of the accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2007. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of accounts receivable, was 2.1% at December 31, 2006. Each 0.10% change in the ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to accounts receivable would impact bad debt expense by $933,000. Employee Benefit Plan Costs We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. We have established investment targets to balance investment risk and desired long term rate of return. Our current targets are equities at 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25% to 35%. At December 31, 2007, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 68%; fixed income securities 30%; and cash and cash equivalents 2%. We determine our expected long term rate of return based on our expectations of future returns for the pension plans investments based on target allocations of the pension plans investments. Additionally, we consider the weighted average return of a capital markets model that was developed by the plans investment consultants and historical returns on comparable equity, debt and other investments. The resulting weighted average expected long term rate of return on plan assets is 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007, the same as 2006. While a number of the key assumptions related to our qualified pension plans are long term in nature, including assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and mortality rates, generally accepted accounting principles require that our discount rate assumption reflect current market conditions. As such, our discount rate likely will change more frequently than in prior years. The discount rate utilized to determine our estimated future benefit obligations increased from 5.85% at December 31, 2006 to 6.4% at December 31, 2007. 41 Table of Contents A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $585,000 and $363,000, respectively. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by $419,000. Property, Plant and Equipment Our property, plant and equipment totaled $1.80 billion as of December 31, 2007. Such assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. In 2007 limited assets were evaluated for impairment and found not be be impaired. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations include product development, volume growth, and contribution margins. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.61 billion as of December 31, 2007 resulting primarily from acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including trademarks and customer related intangible assets, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. Goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortized. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Currently, our reporting units are our two segments. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We did not recognize any impairment charges in continuing operations for goodwill during 2007, 2006 or 2005. As a result of the decision to close a facility and shift customers from one regional brand to another, we recognized immaterial impairment charges to certain trademarks during 2007 and 2006. No trademark impairments were recognized in 2005. Income Taxes Deferred taxes are recognized for future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. We estimate our probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and informed judgments. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period, which could have an impact on our earnings. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities for incurred but not reported losses related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation 42 Table of Contents with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $180.4 million and $172.9 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a result of adopting the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions to $41.6 million, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill, and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. See Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements in September 2006. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2008. The FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities in February 2007. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Most of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 apply only to entities that elect the fair value option. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2008, and will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Significant Changes in Acquisition Accounting in December 2007. SFAS No. 141R contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities, including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition such as contingencies and research and development. The provisions of SFAS No. 141R apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating what impact the adoption of this revised standard will have on our future Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2009. The FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements in December 2007. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. We are currently evaluating what impact the adoption of this revised standard will have on our future Consolidated Financial Statements. This statement will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2009. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. 43 Table of Contents We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior credit facility rising above the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. A majority of our debt obligations, excluding hedges, are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Other We currently do not have material exposure to foreign currency risk as we do not have significant amounts of operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. Butterfat Our Dairy Group utilizes a significant amount of butterfat to produce Class II products. This butterfat is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Butterfat acquired in raw milk is priced based on the Class II butterfat price in federal orders, which is announced near the end of the applicable month. The Class II butterfat price can generally be tied to the pricing of AA butter traded on the CME. The cost of butterfat acquired in bulk cream is typically based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the CME. From time to time, we purchase butter futures and butter inventory in an effort to better manage our butterfat cost in Class II products. Futures contracts are marked to market in accordance with SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and physical inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We are exposed to market risk under this risk management strategy if the cost of butter falls below the cost that we have agreed to pay in a futures contract or that we actually paid for the physical inventory and we are unable to pass on the difference to our customers. As of December 31, 2007 we had no material physical or financial positions. 44 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Our Dairy Group segment is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. Our WhiteWave Foods (WhiteWave) segment markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk , Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and other fluid dairy products. White Waves Rachels Organic dairy products brand is the second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom. Dairy Group Our Dairy Group segment is our largest segment, with approximately 88% of our consolidated net sales in 2007. Our Dairy Group manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, cultured dairy products and juices to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of the Dairy Groups products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers stores in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that our Dairy Group has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. The Dairy Group sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by the Dairy Groups corporate sales department. Most of the Dairy Groups customers, including its largest customer, purchase products from the Dairy Group either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation led by us. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk and cream decreased by over 10% from 1990 to the end of 2007, although total consumption has remained relatively flat over the same period due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains flat to modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure caused by the ongoing consolidation among food retailers, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and cost reduction in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. Historically, our Dairy Group volume growth has paced with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition, and service quality. Our Dairy Group has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service and quality, while competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. In some cases the Dairy Group pays fees to customers for shelf space or supply agreements. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Our WhiteWave segment net sales are approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave develops, manufactures, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. WhiteWave also sells The Organic Cow organic dairy products. We license the LAND OLAKES name from third parties. WhiteWave sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. The majority of WhiteWaves products, including sales to its 23 Table of Contents largest customer, are sold pursuant to customer purchase orders or pursuant to contracts that are generally terminable at will by the customer. WhiteWave has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. Also, in some cases, WhiteWave pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and WhiteWave has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. However, our soy and organic food products compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. Recent Developments Conventional Milk Environment In 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Companys raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred weight, a 69% increase from that same period a year ago. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to flatten compared to prior year levels. Organic Milk Environment In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing in excess of 30% in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 18% for the year when compared to similar periods in the prior year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Credit Facility and Special Cash Dividend On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet through the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The completion of the new senior credit facility and special cash dividend resulted in the write off of $13.5 million of financing costs and $6.2 million of professional fees and expenses, respectively. In addition, we entered into an amendment and restatement of our receivables facility that 24 Table of Contents extended the facility termination date from November 15, 2009 to March 30, 2010. See note 9 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Management Changes and Alignment We continued to build our leadership team in 2007 with key additions in the area of supply chain, human resources, sales, and marketing. On November 5, 2007, Gregg Tanner joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Before joining our Company, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations, at the Hershey Company. Prior to his role at Hershey, Mr. Tanner held the position of Senior Vice President , Retail Supply Chain at ConAgra Foods, as well as various positions at the Quaker Oats Company and Ralston Purina. On June 18, 2007, Paul Moskowitz joined Dean Foods as Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Moskowitz served as the Chief People Officer for Pizza Hut, a division of Yum! Brands. Prior to his role at Pizza Hut he served in various Human Resources roles with Yum! Brands, Darden Restaurants, Brinker International, and Towers Perrin. In late 2007 and into 2008, we began to align our leadership teams and the development of strategic initiatives around more clearly defined business platforms. Chris Sliva was promoted to Chief Operating Officer of Morningstar. Mr. Sliva joined the Company in 2006 as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Customer Officer at WhiteWave. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Sliva served in various positions at Eastman Kodak Corporation, Fort James Corporation, and Procter Gamble. Mr. Sliva reports to Joe Scalzo, President and Chief Executive Officer of Morningstar and WhiteWave. Harrald Kroeker was promoted to President, Direct Store Delivery Group. Mr. Kroeker joined the Company in November 2006. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Kroeker served in various executive capacities at Pepsi Bottling Group, Polaroid, and Procter Gamble. Greg McKelvey was promoted to Senior Vice President, Dean Foods Strategy and Marketing Services. Mr. McKelvey joined the Company in 2005 as the Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning for our WhiteWave segment. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. McKelvey was a consultant with Bain Company. As part of these initiatives we eliminated a number of positions in the Dairy Group, including that held by Alan Bernon, the former President of the Dairy Group. Over time, we believe this management alignment between Morningstar and WhiteWave will leverage the manufacturing, innovation, and systems infrastructure of both Morningstar and WhiteWave across an extended warehouse platform. Mr. Tanner, Mr. Moskowitz, Mr. Kroeker and Mr. McKelvey report directly to Gregg Engles, our Chairman and CEO. Centralization of Finance and Transaction Processing Activities In late 2006, we began centralizing our finance and transaction processing activities within five regional finance and transaction processing centers across the United States, the largest of which is located in Dallas, Texas. Centralizing these activities will allow us to better leverage our people, systems, and tools. It also will provide the foundational base to execute the platform strategies. All five of the facilities were operational as of the end of 2007. We will substantially complete the centralization of the finance and payroll processing activities in the first half of 2008. We will continue to centralize specific processing activities, largely accounts payable, through 2009. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2007, we recorded a charge of $34.4 million as part of our ongoing costs savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $28.1 million related to our Dairy Group operations for realignment of management positions, workforce reductions, and the closing of three Dairy Group facilities and other previously announced plans. We also recorded a 25 Table of Contents charge of $6.3 million related to the previously announced centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities. These charges include the following costs: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value and held for sale. We expect to incur additional charges related to all of these restructuring plans of $6.5 million through the end of 2008. Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations Friendship Dairies On March 13, 2007, our Dairy Group completed the acquisition of Friendship Dairies, Inc., a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of cultured dairy products primarily in the northeastern United States. This transaction expanded our cultured dairy product capabilities and added a strong regional brand. We paid approximately $130 million, including transaction costs, for the purchase of Friendship Dairies and funded the purchase price with borrowings under our senior credit facility. Other Acquisitions We have noted an increase in opportunities to acquire additional dairy manufacturing facilities. We attribute this recent trend largely to the rising commodity prices and competitive environment. In early 2008, we acquired two manufacturing facilities that supplement our DSD platform. These facilities were acquired from Wells Dairy, Inc. and SUPERVALU INC. The purchase price of these facilities aggregated to approximately $50 million. As we move forward, we may choose to make additional acquisitions of attractively valued and strategically desirable facilities. Iberian Operations Our former Iberian operations included the manufacture and distribution of private label and branded milk across Spain and Portugal. On September 14, 2006, we completed the sale of our operations in Spain for net cash proceeds of approximately $96 million. In connection with the sale of our operations in Spain, we entered into an agreement to sell our Portuguese operations (that comprised the remainder of our Iberian operations) for $11.4 million subject to regulatory approvals and working capital settlements. We completed the sale of our Portuguese operations in January 2007. The Iberian operations have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,821.9 100.0 % $ 10,098.6 100.0 % $ 10,174.7 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,084.3 76.8 7,358.7 72.9 7,591.5 74.6 Gross profit(1) 2,737.6 23.2 2,739.9 27.1 2,583.2 25.4 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,721.7 14.6 1,648.9 16.3 1,581.0 15.5 General and administrative 419.5 3.5 409.2 4.1 380.5 3.7 Amortization of intangibles 6.7 0.1 6.0 0.1 6.1 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 34.4 0.3 25.1 0.2 35.5 0.4 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,184.0 18.5 2,089.2 20.7 2,003.1 19.7 Total operating income $ 553.6 4.7 % $ 650.7 6.4 % $ 580.1 5.7 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales increased 17.1% to $11.82 billion during 2007 from $10.10 billion in 2006. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales $ % Increase/ Increase/ 2007 2006 (Decrease) (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 10,449.4 $ 8,841.8 $ 1,607.6 18.2 % WhiteWave 1,372.5 1,256.8 115.7 9.2 Total $ 11,821.9 $ 10,098.6 $ 1,723.3 17.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2007 vs. 2006 Pricing, Volume Total and Product Increase/ Acquisitions Mix Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Dairy Group $ 98.7 1,508.9 1,607.6 WhiteWave 115.7 115.7 Total $ 98.7 1,624.6 1,723.3 Net sales increased $1.72 billion during 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices, other commodity and distribution costs. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by 23.4% to $9.08 billion in 2007 from $7.36 billion in 2006 primarily due to higher conventional and organic raw milk costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 76.8% in 2007 compared to 72.9% in 2006. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $94.8 million, or 4.5% during 2007 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $72.8 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, outside storage, advertising, and bad debt expense. General and administrative costs increased $10.3 million on higher employee costs, professional fees and infrastructure costs, partially offset by lower employee incentive compensation plans tied to operating performance. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $9.3 million higher than 2006. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 18.5% for 2007 as compared to 20.7% for 2006 primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that outpaced growth in operating costs and expenses. Operating Income For the reasons noted above, operating income was $553.6 million in 2007, a decrease of $97.1 million from 2006 operating income of $650.7 million. Our operating margin was 4.7% in 2007 compared to 6.4% in 2006. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $333.2 million in 2007 from $194.5 million in 2006 primarily due to higher average debt balances and interest rates. The higher debt balances resulted from the recapitalization of our balance sheet in April 2007 and payment of the special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2% in 2007 compared to 38.5% in 2006. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our income tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results by Segment Dairy Group The key performance indicators of our Dairy Group segment are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 10,449.4 100.0 % $ 8,841.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 8,172.0 78.2 6,541.3 74.0 Gross profit 2,277.4 21.8 2,300.5 26.0 Operating costs and expenses 1,652.9 15.8 1,615.8 18.3 Total operating income $ 624.5 6.0 % $ 684.7 7.7 % 28 Table of Contents Net Sales Our Dairy Groups net sales increased $1.61 billion, or 18.2%, in 2007 versus 2006. The change in net sales from 2006 to 2007 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2006 Net sales $ 8,841.8 Acquisitions 98.7 1.1 % Volume (7.1 ) (0.1 ) Pricing and product mix 1,516.0 17.2 2007 Net sales $ 10,449.4 18.2 % The increase in the Dairy Groups net sales was due largely to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on the Dairy Groups profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2007 compared to 2006: Year Ended December 31* 2007 2006 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.14 $ 11.88 52.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 13.47 7.47 80.3 Class I butterfat mover(3)(4) 1.47 1.34 9.7 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(2) 13.67 7.35 86.0 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.48 1.33 11.3 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Materials and Other Inputs for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. In 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Companys raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred weight, a 69% increase from that same period a year ago. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss 29 Table of Contents of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to flatten compared to prior year levels. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by $1.63 billion or 24.9% to $8.17 billion in 2007 from $6.54 billion in 2006 primarily due to higher conventional raw milk costs, resin and packaging, partially offset by lower conversion costs. The higher commodity prices as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat resulted and impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 78.2% in 2007 compared to 74.0% in 2006. Operating Costs and Expenses The Dairy Group operating costs and expenses increased $37.1 million or 2.3% to $1.65 billion during 2007, compared to $1.62 billion during 2006 primarily due to: Higher selling and distribution costs of $48.4 million primarily due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, commissions and bad debt expense, partially offset by lower advertising expense. Lower general and administrative costs of $12.1 million primarily due to lower employee incentive compensation under plans tied to operating performance. Our Dairy Groups operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 15.8% in 2007 from 18.3% in 2006, primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that out paced growth in operating costs and expenses. WhiteWave The key performance indicators of WhiteWave are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,372.5 100.0 % $ 1,256.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 910.9 66.4 816.1 64.9 Gross profit 461.6 33.6 440.7 35.1 Operating costs and expenses 343.2 25.0 308.0 24.5 Total operating income $ 118.4 8.6 % $ 132.7 10.6 % WhiteWave net sales increased $115.7 million, or 9.2%, in 2007 versus 2006. The change in net sales from 2006 to 2007 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2006 Net sales $ 1,256.8 Volume 91.8 7.3 % Pricing and product mix 23.9 1.9 2007 Net sales $ 1,372.5 9.2 % The increase in WhiteWave net sales was principally due to higher volume, pricing on certain products and product mix. Due to an increase in competitive activity and market conditions surrounding organic dairy products the pricing increases related to International Delight, and LAND O LAKES were largely offset by lower pricing on Horizon Organic products. 30 Table of Contents The volume of Silk, International Delight and LAND O LAKES products grew by high single digits in 2007. We believe the increased volumes were due primarily to increased consumer acceptance and more effective marketing of our products. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing in excess of 30% in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 18% for the year when compared to similar periods in the prior year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Cost of sales for WhiteWave increased to $910.9 million in 2007 from $816.1 million in 2006, primarily driven by higher volumes, but also by higher raw material costs, particularly raw conventional milk and raw organic milk, which increased cost of sales by $31.0 million. Cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 66.4% in 2007 from 64.9% in 2006. Operating expenses increased $35.2 million in 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher distribution costs of $17.5 million, driven by higher volumes and rising fuel costs, and by higher marketing spending of $7.6 million, and higher SAP related costs of $5.2 million. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Consolidated Results Net Sales Consolidated net sales decreased 0.7% to $10.10 billion during 2006 from $10.17 billion in 2005. Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales $ % Increase/ Increase/ 2006 2005 (Decrease) (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 8,841.8 $ 8,999.5 $ (157.7 ) (1.8 )% WhiteWave 1,256.8 1,175.2 81.6 6.9 Total $ 10,098.6 $ 10,174.7 $ (76.1 ) (0.7 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2006 vs. 2005 Pricing, Volume Total and Product Increase/ Acquisitions Mix Changes (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Dairy Group $ 8.0 $ (165.7 ) $ (157.7 ) WhiteWave 81.6 81.6 Total $ 8.0 $ (84.1 ) $ (76.1 ) Net sales decreased $76.1 million during 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower raw milk costs in our Dairy Group, partly offset by volume growth in the Dairy Group and WhiteWave segments and increased pricing at WhiteWave. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate 31 Table of Contents and maintain our coolers and freezers. In addition, our Dairy Group includes costs associated with transporting our finished products from our manufacturing facilities to our own distribution facilities. Cost of sales decreased by 3.1% to $7.36 billion in 2006 from $7.59 billion in 2005 primarily due to lower raw milk costs in our Dairy Group, partly offset by increased volumes at the Dairy Group and WhiteWave and higher commodity costs at WhiteWave. Our cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to 72.9% in 2006 compared to 74.6% in 2005. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $86.1 million, or 4.3% during 2006 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $67.9 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, advertising and commissions, partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Bad debt expense decreased $10.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. The expense in 2005 was higher due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina and the write off of a receivable from a large customer. General and administrative costs increased $28.7 million on higher employee costs and professional fees. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $10.4 million lower than 2005. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 20.7% for 2006 as compared to 19.7% for 2005. Operating Income For the reasons noted above, our operating income was $650.7 million in 2006, an increase of $70.6 million from 2005 operating income of $580.1 million. Our operating margin was 6.4% in 2006 compared to 5.7% in 2005. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $194.5 million in 2006 from $160.2 million in 2005 primarily due to higher interest rates, including higher interest rates on our $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued on May 17, 2006, and higher average debt outstanding. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.5% in 2006 compared to 39.0% in 2005. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our income tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results by Segment Dairy Group Net Sales The key performance indicators of our Dairy Group segment are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 8,841.8 100.0 % $ 8,999.5 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,541.3 74.0 6,829.1 75.9 Gross profit 2,300.5 26.0 2,170.4 24.1 Operating costs and expenses 1,615.8 18.3 1,523.2 16.9 Total operating income $ 684.7 7.7 % $ 647.2 7.2 % 32 Table of Contents Our Dairy Groups net sales decreased $157.7 million, or 1.8%, in 2006 versus 2005. The change in net sales from 2005 to 2006 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2005 Net sales $ 8,999.5 Acquisitions 8.0 0.1 % Volume 163.4 1.8 Pricing and product mix (329.1 ) (3.7 ) 2006 Net sales $ 8,841.8 (1.8 )% The decrease in the Dairy Groups net sales was due to lower raw milk costs, partly offset by increased volumes. The decrease in the Dairy Groups net sales due to pricing and product mix shown in the above table primarily resulted from decreased pricing due to the pass through of lower raw milk costs in 2006. In general, our Dairy Group changes the prices it charges customers for fluid dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw materials and other variable costs fluctuate. Because of competitive pressures, the price increases do not always reflect the entire increase in raw material and other input costs that we may experience. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2006 compared to 2005: Year Ended December 31* 2006 2005 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.88 $ 14.40 (18 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1),(2) 7.47 8.54 (13 )% Class I butterfat mover(3),(4) 1.34 1.76 (24 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1),(2) 7.35 7.74 (5 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3),(4) 1.33 1.72 (23 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and vendor. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Materials and Other Inputs for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Volume sales of all Dairy Group products, excluding the impact of acquisitions, increased 1.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Volume sales of fresh milk, which were approximately 69% of the Dairy Groups 2006 volumes, were up approximately 1.9% for the year compared to USDA data showing a 1.0% increase in total consumption of milk in the U.S. during the year. Cost of Sales Cost of sales decreased by $287.8 million or 4.2% to $6.54 billion in 2006 from $6.83 billion in 2005, primarily due to lower conventional raw milk costs, partially offset by higher resin, packaging and conversion costs. The Dairy Groups cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to 74.0% in 2006 compared to 75.9% in 2005. 33 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses The Dairy Group operating costs and expenses increased $92.6 million or 6.1% to $1.62 billion during 2006, compared to $1.52 billion during 2005 primarily due to: Selling and distribution increased $67.2 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, advertising and commissions partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Bad debt expense decreased in comparison to 2005. The bad debt expense in 2005 was higher due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina and the write off of a receivable from a large customer. General and administrative costs increased $25.1 million on higher employee costs and professional fees. Operating costs and expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 18.3% in 2006 from 16.9% in 2005. WhiteWave The key performance indicators of WhiteWave are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2006 2005 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,256.8 100.0 % $ 1,175.2 100.0 % Cost of sales 816.1 64.9 760.7 64.7 Gross profit 440.7 35.1 414.5 35.3 Operating costs and expenses 308.0 24.5 304.7 26.0 Total operating income $ 132.7 10.6 % $ 109.8 9.3 % WhiteWave net sales increased $81.6 million, or 6.9%, in 2006 versus 2005. The change in net sales from 2005 to 2006 was due to the following: Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) 2005 Net sales $ 1,175.2 Volume 27.7 2.3 % Pricing and product mix 53.9 4.6 2006 Net sales $ 1,256.8 6.9 % The increase in WhiteWave net sales was largely due to higher pricing. The two primary drivers of this increase were increased selling prices in response to increased commodity costs and a decline in slotting fees, couponing and certain other promotional costs that are required to be recorded as reductions of net sales. Volume growth in our Silk, Horizon Organic, International Delight, LAND OLAKES and Rachels Organic brands was partly offset by the elimination of certain product offerings in late 2005 and early 2006. We believe increased Horizon Organic and Silk volumes were due primarily to increased consumer acceptance and increased marketing efforts. Cost of sales for WhiteWave increased to $816.1 million in 2006 from $760.7 million in 2005 primarily due to the impact of higher raw material costs, particularly organic raw milk and sugar, which increased cost of sales by approximately $41 million and increased volumes. The cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased to 64.9% in 2006 from 64.7% in 2005 due to increased selling prices and improved product mix, principally driven by the product rationalization in 2006. Operating expenses increased $3.3 million in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher marketing spending of $6.1 million, higher fuel costs of $3.5 million and SAP related costs of $2.9 million, partly offset by increased distribution efficiencies. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Cash Flow During 2007, we met our working capital needs with cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $350.3 million for 2007 as compared to $561.6 million for 2006, a decrease of $211.3 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was impacted by lower net income and an increase in our working capital of $51.5 million in 2007 compared to a increase of $86.4 million in 2006 due primarily to increase in accounts receivable with a slight offset from accounts payable and accrued expenses. In addition, income taxes payable decreased $32.0 million in 2007 compared to an increase of $11.3 million in 2006 due to the timing of tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $351.9 million in 2007 compared to $248.3 million in 2006, an increase of $103.6 million. We used $132.2 million for acquisitions and $241.4 million for capital expenditures in 2007 compared to $17.2 million and $237.2 million in 2006, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $7.6 million in 2007 compared to $397.0 million in 2006, a decrease of $389.4 million primarily due to the repurchase of stock during 2006. We had no stock repurchases during 2007. We had a net borrowing of $1.90 billion of debt in 2007 compared to the repayment of $53.5 million of debt in 2006 as a result of the recapitalization of our balance sheet through the completion of a new credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. We received $48.1 million in 2007, net of minimum withholding taxes paid from cash proceeds, compared to $32.3 million in 2006 as a result of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. Our employee stock purchase plan was terminated during 2006. Current Debt Obligations Senior Credit Facility On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet through the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record on March 27, 2007 through a $15 per share special cash dividend. This transaction significantly increased our leverage profile and interest expense. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The blended interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 6.44% at December 31, 2007. However, we had interest rate swap agreements in place that hedged $3.4 billion of our borrowings under the senior credit facility at an average rate of 4.81%, plus the applicable interest rate margin. Interest is payable quarterly or at the end of the applicable interest period. The term loan A is payable in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of: $56.25 million in each of the first eight installments, beginning on June 30, 2009 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments, beginning on June 30, 2011 and ending on April 2, 2012. The term loan B will amortize 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory 35 Table of Contents principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined under our credit agreement). The completion of the new senior credit facility resulted in the write off of $13.5 million of financing costs in the second quarter of 2007. The credit facility contains various financial and other restrictive covenants and requires that we comply with certain financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. The senior credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Significant increases in raw material and other input costs, as well as the oversupply of raw organic milk, have increased our working capital requirements, decreased our operating profitability, and limited our ability in the near term to reduce the borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. Our actual performance levels under the financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt. We currently have a maximum permitted leverage ratio of 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, this leverage ratio was 5.95 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 times as of December 31, 2008. This reduced leverage ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. Failure to comply with the leverage ratio could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables facility. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any default triggers based on our credit rating. At December 31, 2007, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.84 billion under our senior credit facility (compared to $1.76 billion at December 31, 2006), including $3.3 billion in term loan borrowings and $550 million outstanding under the revolving line of credit. At December 31, 2007, there were $174.0 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 22, 2008, $3.79 billion was outstanding under our senior credit facility. In addition to our senior credit facility, we also have a $600 million receivables backed facility subject to a borrowing base formula. The receivables backed facility had $600 million available and drawn at December 31, 2007. The average interest rate on this facility at December 31, 2007 was 6.00%. At February 22, 2008, $584.6 million was outstanding under this facility. 36 Table of Contents Our outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility increased from 2006 to 2007 primarily due to the recapitalization of our balance sheet, the proceeds of which were used for a $15 per share special cash dividend and to refinance all existing debt under the old credit facility, and to pay related fees and expenses. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2007 also included $350 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes and $11.3 million of capital lease and other obligations. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our indebtedness. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2007. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease and purchase obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase Payments Due by Period Lease Obligations(1) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter (In millions) Senior credit facility $ 3,836.8 $ 18.0 $ 186.8 $ 243.0 $ 861.8 $ 830.8 $ 1,696.4 Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 350.0 200.0 150.0 Receivables backed facility 600.0 600.0 Capital lease obligations and other 11.3 7.2 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 1.6 Purchase obligations(3) 832.2 440.8 169.1 108.8 28.3 13.3 71.9 Operating leases 498.6 112.9 99.6 82.6 67.0 51.6 84.9 Interest payments(4) 1,538.7 288.4 283.8 250.0 233.1 169.9 313.4 Total $ 8,167.6 $ 867.3 $ 940.0 $ 1,285.0 $ 1,190.8 $ 1,066.2 $ 2,818.2 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $46.1 million accrued under FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined retirement and other post employee benefit plans. See note 13 for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including organic soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2007. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan also may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or 37 Table of Contents decreased pension costs in future periods. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2007, we recorded non cash pension expense of $5.3 million, of which $4.9 million was attributable to periodic expense and $437,000 was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $8.1 million in 2006, of which $7.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $350,000 was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. The assumed discount rate used to determine plan obligations was 6.40% and 5.85% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In order to select a discount rate for purposes of valuing the plan obligations and fiscal year end disclosure, an analysis is performed in which the duration of projected cash flows from defined benefit and retiree health care plans are matched with a yield curve based on an appropriate universe of high quality corporate bonds that are available. We use the results of the yield curve analysis to select the discount rate that matches the duration and payment stream of the benefits in each plan. In selecting the assumed rate of return on plan assets, we consider past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan, as well as our investment allocation policy and the effect of periodic target asset allocation rebalancing. We rebalance the investments when the allocation is not within the target range. The results are adjusted for the payment of reasonable expenses of the plan from plan assets. We believe these assumptions are appropriate based upon the mix of investments and the long term nature of the plans investments. Plan asset returns were $13.1 million in 2007, a $11.2 million decrease from plan asset returns of $24.3 million in 2006. Based on current projections, 2008 funding requirements will be $22.5 million as compared to $23.2 million for 2007. The postretirement benefit plans are not funded. Based on current projections, 2008 cash requirements to pay benefits for our other postretirement benefit obligations will be $2.3 million as compared to $2.4 million for 2007. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not breached or terminated any of our milk supply agreements with DFA. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and 38 Table of Contents selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2008, we intend to invest a total of approximately $250 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $330 million to $335 million based on current debt levels under our new senior credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $25.2 million. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted leverage ratio of 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, this leverage ratio was 5.95 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 times as of December 31, 2008. This reduced leverage ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2007, approximately $775.7 million was available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Of this amount, approximately $270 million was available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Available borrowings in excess of this amount would require that the financed transaction be accretive to our leverage and coverage ratios. At February 22, 2008, approximately $855.8 million was available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Materials and Other Inputs Dairy Group The primary raw material used in our Dairy Group is raw milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk, and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price, and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). In general, our Dairy Group changes the prices that it charges for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk , other commodity, packaging, and delivery costs fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat based products because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. These factors can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. 39 Table of Contents In 2007, we experienced rapidly rising and all time high prices in conventional raw milk prices. There continues to be significant volatility in the pricing of conventional raw milk and we anticipate that volatility to continue throughout 2008. While we currently expect conventional raw milk prices to decline in 2008 from the levels experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007, we expect the prices to remain high. The Dairy Group generally increases or decreases the net sales price of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging, and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on the Dairy Groups profitability. However, raw milk, butterfat and cream prices are difficult to predict, and we change our forecasts frequently based on current market activity. The Dairy Group generally has been effective at passing through the changes in the prices of underlying commodities. However, the pass through is not perfect when prices move up steadily over a period of several months. In addition, we generally change the prices we charge on products other than fluid milk on a less frequent basis. Our Dairy Group purchases approximately four million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. Another significant raw material used by our Dairy Group is resin, which is a petroleum based product and used to make plastic bottles. We purchase approximately 27 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The price of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil prices. During 2007, the prices of resin decreased mildly while diesel prices were largely unchanged. We expect prices of both resin and diesel fuel to fluctuate throughout 2008. WhiteWave The primary raw material used in our soy based products is organic soybeans. Organic soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these products. We have entered into supply agreements for organic soybeans, which we believe will meet our needs in 2008. These agreements provide pricing at fixed levels. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. We also produce approximately 20% of our own organic raw milk needs in the U.S. at two organic farms that we own and operate and an additional farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of one to two years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, due to the recent industry efforts to increase the supply of organic raw milk, in 2007 we experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk that has increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. The market for organic milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an under supply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep our existing customers, or gain new customers. There are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As the consolidation of the grocery industry continues, we could lose sales if any one or more of our existing customers were to be sold to a chain with captive dairy operations. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current intensely competitive environment. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in our Dairy Group, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our largest customers, and most of the contracts that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. The supply demand imbalance in the organic milk market has increased competition in the marketplace as competitors attempt to stimulate demand through lower retail prices and aggressive distribution expansion. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the sale of our organic products. 40 Table of Contents Tax Rate In 2007, our income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2%. Our tax rate for 2006 was 38.5%. We estimate that our effective tax rate for 2008 will be approximately 39.0%. Changes in the relative profitability of our operating segments, as well as changes to federal and state tax laws may cause the rate to change from historical rates. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2007, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $19.8 million, or 2.2% of the accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2007. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of accounts receivable, was 2.1% at December 31, 2006. Each 0.10% change in the ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to accounts receivable would impact bad debt expense by $933,000. Employee Benefit Plan Costs We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. We have established investment targets to balance investment risk and desired long term rate of return. Our current targets are equities at 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25% to 35%. At December 31, 2007, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 68%; fixed income securities 30%; and cash and cash equivalents 2%. We determine our expected long term rate of return based on our expectations of future returns for the pension plans investments based on target allocations of the pension plans investments. Additionally, we consider the weighted average return of a capital markets model that was developed by the plans investment consultants and historical returns on comparable equity, debt and other investments. The resulting weighted average expected long term rate of return on plan assets is 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007, the same as 2006. While a number of the key assumptions related to our qualified pension plans are long term in nature, including assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and mortality rates, generally accepted accounting principles require that our discount rate assumption reflect current market conditions. As such, our discount rate likely will change more frequently than in prior years. The discount rate utilized to determine our estimated future benefit obligations increased from 5.85% at December 31, 2006 to 6.4% at December 31, 2007. 41 Table of Contents A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $585,000 and $363,000, respectively. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by $419,000. Property, Plant and Equipment Our property, plant and equipment totaled $1.80 billion as of December 31, 2007. Such assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. In 2007 limited assets were evaluated for impairment and found not be be impaired. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations include product development, volume growth, and contribution margins. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.61 billion as of December 31, 2007 resulting primarily from acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including trademarks and customer related intangible assets, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. Goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortized. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Currently, our reporting units are our two segments. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We did not recognize any impairment charges in continuing operations for goodwill during 2007, 2006 or 2005. As a result of the decision to close a facility and shift customers from one regional brand to another, we recognized immaterial impairment charges to certain trademarks during 2007 and 2006. No trademark impairments were recognized in 2005. Income Taxes Deferred taxes are recognized for future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. We estimate our probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and informed judgments. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period, which could have an impact on our earnings. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities for incurred but not reported losses related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation 42 Table of Contents with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $180.4 million and $172.9 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a result of adopting the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions to $41.6 million, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill, and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. See Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements in September 2006. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2008. The FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities in February 2007. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Most of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 apply only to entities that elect the fair value option. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2008, and will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Significant Changes in Acquisition Accounting in December 2007. SFAS No. 141R contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities, including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition such as contingencies and research and development. The provisions of SFAS No. 141R apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating what impact the adoption of this revised standard will have on our future Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2009. The FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements in December 2007. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. We are currently evaluating what impact the adoption of this revised standard will have on our future Consolidated Financial Statements. This statement will become effective for us in the first quarter of 2009. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. 43 Table of Contents We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior credit facility rising above the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. A majority of our debt obligations, excluding hedges, are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Other We currently do not have material exposure to foreign currency risk as we do not have significant amounts of operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. Butterfat Our Dairy Group utilizes a significant amount of butterfat to produce Class II products. This butterfat is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Butterfat acquired in raw milk is priced based on the Class II butterfat price in federal orders, which is announced near the end of the applicable month. The Class II butterfat price can generally be tied to the pricing of AA butter traded on the CME. The cost of butterfat acquired in bulk cream is typically based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the CME. From time to time, we purchase butter futures and butter inventory in an effort to better manage our butterfat cost in Class II products. Futures contracts are marked to market in accordance with SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and physical inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We are exposed to market risk under this risk management strategy if the cost of butter falls below the cost that we have agreed to pay in a futures contract or that we actually paid for the physical inventory and we are unable to pass on the difference to our customers. As of December 31, 2007 we had no material physical or financial positions. 44 Table of Contents 
 
