Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs, as well as Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstar consists of two aggregated platforms: WhiteWave and Morningstar. Our WhiteWave platform (WhiteWave) manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow&reg; organic dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES creamer and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. Our Morningstar platform (Morningstar) is one of the leading U.S. manufacturers of private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. WhiteWave Morningstars net sales totaled $2.65 billion in 2008, or 21.3% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. WhiteWave Morningstars largest customer is Wal Mart, which includes its subsidiaries such as Sams Club, accounting for approximately 14% of WhiteWave Morningstars net sales in 2008. 3 Table of Contents The following charts graphically depict WhiteWave Morningstars 2008 net sales by the mix of company branded versus private label products and customer: (1) Includes Horizon Organic and The Organic Cow organic dairy products. (2) Includes cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese, as well as organic and soy products. WhiteWave Morningstar currently operates 20 manufacturing facilities which produced over 90% of products sold by the segment. For more information about facilities in WhiteWave Morningstar, see Item 2. Properties. The remaining products are manufactured by third party manufacturers under processing agreements. The majority of WhiteWave Morningstars products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we will be augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non genetically modified (non GMO) soybeans. We expect that the launch of these new products will shift a substantial portion of our soybean requirements from organic to non GMO. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. In 2009, we do not believe our overall costs for soybeans will differ materially from 2008 and we have already secured the majority of our anticipated needs for soybeans for 2009. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 80% of our organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The primary raw material used in our private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products, as well as LAND OLAKES and other non organic dairy products, is conventional raw milk. WhiteWave Morningstar also uses significant quantities of butterfat which is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). Other raw materials used in WhiteWave Morningstars products include palm oil, flavorings and organic sugar. Certain of these raw materials are purchased under long term contracts in order to better manage the supply and costs of our inputs. The prices of raw materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales 4 Table of Contents performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. For more information on factors that can impact the results of WhiteWave Morningstar, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs as well as Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Current Business Strategy The Companys strategy historically has been centered on growth through acquisitions and aligning our operating activities with a consolidating customer base. Since 1994, we have completed over 40 acquisitions, increasing our net sales from $150 million to more than $12 billion. Based on relative net sales, we believe we are greater than five times the size of our next closest competitor in the fluid dairy industry. We have acquired in excess of 150 manufacturing facilities over the last 14 years and have made efforts to consolidate production activity to increase the efficiency of our operations, closing in excess of 50 facilities since 1994. As a result, our portfolio of manufacturing and distribution assets enables the Company to offer regional and national branded and private label products across a variety of product categories, ranging from short shelf life (less than 20 days) to extended shelf life (45 to 60 days) to shelf stable products (6 to 12 months), to its customers in a cost effective manner. We believe that DSD Dairy has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States and WhiteWave Morningstars nationally branded and private label products maintain significant market share positions in the soy based beverage, organic dairy, creamer, cultured products and extended shelf life dairy product categories. Currently, the Companys strategy focuses on capturing the benefits of our scale built through our historical growth based strategy, with a goal to become a world class food and beverage company. Our strategy encompasses the following: Achieving cost leadership by leveraging our scale, technology and expertise; Strengthening our core businesses with an advantaged go to market system, leading research and development and innovation, becoming a selling and delivery powerhouse and improving in store execution; Investing for the future by strengthening our capabilities through standardization and simplification of our underlying systems and processes and developing new platforms for growth; and De leveraging our balance sheet and creating additional financial and strategic flexibility. In connection with this strategy, we began aligning our leadership teams and approach around distinct supply chain and delivery channels. Effective January 1, 2008, consistent with this direction, we disaggregated the former Dairy Group segment into a DSD Dairy fluid and ice cream platform and a Morningstar platform. The Morningstar platform is now a part of WhiteWave Morningstar. The strategy for each of our platforms is summarized as follows: DSD Platform DSD Dairy manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, juices and teas, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. DSD Dairy consists of over 80 manufacturing facilities operating largely based on local and regional customer and competitor dynamics. The DSD fluid and ice cream platform is focused on high velocity DSD products where delivering low cost and high levels of customer service are critical to success. Our DSD products are currently offered under more than 50 regional branded and private label names. While a portion of our ice cream products are distributed through customer warehouse delivery channels, the ice cream supply chain remains highly integrated within our DSD system. 5 Table of Contents The DSD platform strategy is to achieve cost leadership and gain market share in the core dairy business. The strategy encompasses the following: Driving to be the lowest cost, most effective manufacturer in every market in which we compete; Building our selling and delivery capability; and Strengthening our capabilities through standardization and simplification of our underlying systems and processes. WhiteWave Platform Our WhiteWave platform produces a robust portfolio of premium national food and beverage brands including Horizon Organic, Silk and Rachels Organic, as well as indulgent favorites such as International Delight and LAND OLAKES products. WhiteWave operates six manufacturing facilities and delivers the majority of its products through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWaves diverse customer base includes grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and food service outlets. The WhiteWave platform strategy is to be a top tier consumer packaged goods company, consistently delivering superior results. The strategy encompasses the following: Achieving cost excellence by leveraging our assets, focusing our portfolio and optimizing our supply chain; Growing our brands through innovation and superior marketing; and Accelerating growth in new businesses by segmenting consumers and innovating in value added products. Morningstar Platform Our Morningstar platform is one of the leading U.S. manufacturers of private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream and cottage cheese. Its supply chain is extensive both with respect to its manufacturing and refrigerated distribution capability, as well as its nationwide geographic footprint. Morningstars 14 manufacturing facilities and two distribution locations enable us to cost effectively service customers nationwide. We service a diverse customer base, which includes traditional grocery, mass merchandisers, foodservice, and convenience store customers. The Morningstar platform strategy is to lead in our categories and drive our customers businesses by providing nutritious, wholesome high quality retail and food service private label extended shelf life and cultured products. The strategy encompasses the following: Driving to be the lowest cost and highest quality national extended shelf life dairy supply chain in the industry by optimizing our supply chain, as well as simplifying our manufacturing processes and pricing mechanisms to reduce operational complexity; Providing our customers with innovative private label products and category solutions to help them grow their business; and Investing in people, processes and systems to drive organizational capacity and capabilities. Seasonality Our business, particularly DSD Dairy, is affected by seasonal changes in the demand for dairy products. The demand for dairy is typically lower in the second and third quarters of the year primarily due to the reduction in dairy consumption associated with our school business; therefore, these quarters have historically generated lower DSD Dairy volumes than the first and fourth quarters. Further, our WhiteWave Morningstar sales are typically higher in the fourth quarter associated with increased dairy consumption during seasonal holidays. Because certain of our operating expenses are fixed, fluctuations in volumes and revenue from quarter to quarter may have a material effect on operating income for the respective quarters. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We are continually developing new technology and enhancing existing proprietary technology related to our dairy operations. As of December 31, 2008, 19 United States patents have been issued to us. In addition, we have filed a total of six patent applications in the United States. We primarily rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. Despite these protections, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy, obtain or use certain portions of our proprietary technology or trademarks. Research and Development We recently opened a new research and development facility and are building our capability through a team of top consumer packaged goods talent across many disciplines such as product development, dairy and soy science, culinary and sensory science, nutrition, packaging design and engineering, and process engineering. Our research and development activities primarily consist of generating and testing new product concepts, new flavors and packaging for our fluid milk, soy and ice cream products. Our total research and development expense related to continuing operations was $7.8 million, $4.0 million and $4.1 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Developments Since January 1, 2008 Conventional Milk Environment Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. In January and February 2009, the Class I mover declined significantly from the average for the fourth quarter of 2008. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. Organic Milk Environment The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. The retail price increases on private label products lagged that of branded products, creating pricing pressures and causing retail price gaps to expand. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a noticeable slowing of growth in the organic milk category. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become and will continue to be increasingly price sensitive to organic milk. As a result, we believe we will experience a continued slowdown in 2009 of our organic milk growth rate. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category and remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. We purchase organic raw milk from our network of over 400 organic family farms using multi year purchase agreements. We anticipate that such agreements will be sufficient to meet our anticipated demand in 2009. As the category growth slows in 2009, it is possible that the industry will be faced with an oversupply position potentially resulting in additional discounting. 7 Table of Contents Public Offering of Equity Securities On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. Acquisitions During 2008, we completed several acquisitions for which the aggregate purchase price was approximately $95.9 million, including transaction costs. Significant acquisition opportunities continue to exist, which are attributable to continued fragmentation in the industry, tightening of financial markets and shifting consumer behavior. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture We have formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, that will introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, called Hero/WhiteWave, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering, with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, will serve as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging each others established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The initial product of the joint venture will be launched in the middle of 2009 under the Fruit2DayTM brand. The initial products will expand the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity. In 2008, we spent $20.4 million related to this joint venture in the form of cash and capital expenditures, of which $7.7 million was contributed to the joint venture as of December 31, 2008. We expect our 2009 earnings will be negatively impacted as Hero/WhiteWave commences operations and incurs start up and introductory marketing costs. Pension Costs and Funding Due to the turmoil in the financial markets in 2008, we experienced significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust used to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. As a result, our funded status as of December 31, 2008 significantly declined from the prior year, and will require an increase in future funding, as well as increase our plan costs. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2008, we recorded a charge of $22.8 million as part of our ongoing supply chain and cost savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $18.3 million in our DSD Dairy operations primarily related to the closure of ice cream operations in Hickory, North Carolina; the closure of facilities in Kalispell, Montana and Denver, Colorado; as well as other previously announced plans. We also recorded a charge of $4.5 million in our WhiteWave Morningstar operations related to the closure of a facility in Belleville, Pennsylvania. These costs include the following types of cash and non cash charges: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value. We are marketing these properties for sale. 8 Table of Contents We expect to incur additional charges related to these restructuring plans of $3.4 million primarily in 2009. We anticipate that we will close additional facilities as we continue the evaluation of our supply chain; however, we cannot currently predict the timing or related charges with respect to such closures. Additionally, we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities for centralization of activities, which could result in additional charges in the future. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had the following employees: No. ofEmployees % ofTotal DSD Dairy 21,540 83 % WhiteWave Morningstar 3,650 14 Corporate 630 3 Total 25,820 100 % Approximately 37% of DSD Dairys and 41% of WhiteWave Morningstars employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with our employees and these organizations is satisfactory. Government Regulation Public Health As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations, specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell, and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorizes regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe our facilities and manufacturing practices are in material compliance with all government regulations applicable to our business. Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations applicable to our business. 9 Table of Contents Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Our plants use a number of chemicals that are considered to be extremely hazardous substances pursuant to applicable environmental laws due to their toxicity, including ammonia which is used extensively in our operations as a refrigerant. Such chemicals must be handled in accordance with such environmental laws. Also, on occasion, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels allowed under local regulations. As a result, certain of our facilities are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct wastewater pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We maintain above ground and under ground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. We periodically inspect these tanks to determine whether they are in compliance with applicable regulations and, as a result of such inspections are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to ensure that these tanks remain in compliance. In addition, upon removal of the tanks, we are sometimes required to make expenditures to restore the site in accordance with applicable environmental laws. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that we are in material compliance with the environmental regulations applicable to our business. We do not expect the cost of our continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position in the foreseeable future. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk primarily contains raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat and other milk components, and we pay our suppliers for the raw milk based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices vary depending on the processors geographic location or sales area and the type of product manufactured. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class I products) and Class II raw milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class II products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government the immediately preceding month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also may pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Organic Regulations Our organic products are required to meet the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. These regulations require strict methods of production for organic food products and limit the ability of food processors to use non organic or synthetic materials in the production of organic foods or in the raising of organic livestock. We believe that we are in material compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. 10 Table of Contents Brief History We commenced operations in 1988 through a predecessor entity. Our original operations consisted solely of a packaged ice business. Since then the following significant activity has occurred: December 1993 Acquired Suiza Dairy Corporation, a regional dairy processor located in Puerto Rico. We then began acquiring other local and regional U.S. dairy processors, growing our dairy business rapidly primarily through acquisitions. April 1996 Completed our initial public offering under our former name Suiza Foods Corporation and began trading on NASDAQ National Market. January 1997 Completed a secondary offering. March 1997 Began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. August 1997 Acquired Franklin Plastics, Inc., a company engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling plastic containers. After the acquisition, we began acquiring other companies in the plastic packaging industry. November 1997 Acquired Morningstar Foods Inc., whose business was a predecessor to our WhiteWave segment. This was our first acquisition of a company with national brands. April 1998 Sold our packaged ice operations. May 1998 Acquired Continental Can Company, making us one of the largest plastic packaging companies in the United States. July 1999 Sold all of our U.S. plastic packaging operations to Consolidated Container Company in exchange for cash and a minority interest in the purchaser. January 2000 Acquired Southern Foods Group, L.P., the third largest dairy processor in the United States, making us the largest dairy processor in the country. February 2000 Acquired Leche Celta, one of the largest dairy processors in Spain. March and May 2000 Sold our European packaging operations. December 2001 Acquired Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean) and changed our name from Suiza Foods Corporation to Dean Foods Company. Legacy Dean changed its name to Dean Holding Company. May 2002 Acquired the portion of White Wave, Inc. that we did not already own. January 2004 Acquired the portion of Horizon Organic that we did not already own. January 2005 Consolidated our nationally branded business, including White Wave, Horizon Organic and Dean National Brand Group into a single operating unit called WhiteWave. June 2005 Spun off our Specialty Foods Group segment to our shareholders. September 2006 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Spain. January 2007 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Portugal. March 2007 Acquired Friendship Dairies, one of the largest dairy products manufacturers, marketers and distributors in the northeastern United States. April 2007 Paid a special cash dividend of $15 per share to our shareholders. January 2008 Entered into and formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group. 11 Table of Contents Minority Holdings and Other Interests Consolidated Container Company We own an approximately 25% interest, on a fully diluted basis, in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners, an unaffiliated entity, controls CCC through a majority ownership interest. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control two of the eight seats on CCCs Management Committee. We also have entered into various supply agreements with CCC pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. In 2008, we spent $330.3 million on products purchased from CCC. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our investment in CCC. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture We have formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, that will introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, called Hero/WhiteWave, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering, with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, will serve as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging each others established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The initial product of the joint venture will be launched in the middle of 2009 under the Fruit2Day brand. The initial products will expand the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity. In 2008, we spent $20.4 million related to this joint venture in the form of cash and capital expenditures, of which $7.7 million was contributed to the joint venture as of December 31, 2008. We expect our 2009 earnings will be negatively impacted as Hero/WhiteWave commences operations and incurs start up and introductory marketing costs. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 12 Table of Contents Our Code of Ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees and directors, is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations Item 1A. Risk Factors Competitive Risks Industry Consolidation has Strengthened the Competitive Position of Our Retail Customers, Which May Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and may re dedicate key shelf space currently occupied by our products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases are becoming more widespread in our business. If we are unable to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. Increased Competition With Our Branded and Organic Products Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Profit Margin. Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products have gained in popularity with consumers, our products in these categories have attracted competitors, including private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. We have experienced a trade down from branded products to private label brands as a result of widening price gaps and the downturn in the economy. Furthermore, in periods of economic decline, consumers tend to purchase lower priced products, such as conventional milk, which could reduce sales of our organic milk. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. For example, Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestl&eacute; CoffeeMate&reg;. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestl&eacute;, which has substantially more resources than we do, could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight business. The Loss of One of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sams Club, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2008. During 2008, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 29% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. In addition, we do not generally enter into sales 13 Table of Contents agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. Finally, many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, particularly within DSD Dairy, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers. Commodity Risks Availability of and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Our business is heavily dependent on raw materials such as conventional and organic raw milk, diesel fuel, resin and soybeans and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, our DSD Dairy system is a large consumer of diesel fuel and WhiteWave Morningstar is affected by the costs of petroleum based products through the use of common carriers. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on market conditions, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather, including the heightened impact of weather events related to climate change, also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. Sometimes supplies of raw materials, such as resin, have been insufficient to meet demand. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials can significantly adversely affect our performance as upward price changes often lag changes in costs we charge our customers, and in some cases these price increases may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers. These lags and limitations may decrease our profit margins. High raw material costs can also decrease our margins and our volumes. In addition, raw material cost fluctuations from year to year can cause our revenues to increase or decrease significantly compared to prior periods. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Industry regulation, and the costs of organic farming compared to prices paid for conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. A substantial amount of the organic milk we produce is sold under the Horizon Organic brand, for which we incur increased marketing costs. An oversupply of organic raw milk can cause significant discounting in the organic milk market, which increases competitive pressure on our branded products and could cause our profitability to suffer. An undersupply or higher input costs can increase the costs of organic raw milk, which can cause retail price gaps between private label and branded products to expand, which could decrease our volumes and adversely affect our results. The impact of retail price gaps may be compounded by the current economic environment as consumers become increasingly focused on product pricing. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.27 billion under our senior secured credit facility, all of which were in term loan borrowings. There were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit. In addition, we had $752.2 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding and $460.0 million outstanding under our receivables backed facility at December 31, 2008. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. 14 Table of Contents In addition, in the current economic climate, investors are apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Also, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with the Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement), or any other financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, our actual performance levels under this reduced Leverage Ratio or our other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Recent Adverse Market Events Have Caused Costs of Providing Employee Benefits to Escalate, Which May Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multi employer plans on behalf of our employees. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multi employer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Due in part to the decline in the value of these investments, our funded status as of December 31, 2008 declined by approximately $75.0 million from the prior year end. This decline will result in an increase in future funding requirements, as well as increased plan costs. In addition to the impact from our defined benefit retirement plan, we expect the recent market events to increase the future funding requirements related to multi employer plans in which we participate. The Recent Disruptions in the Overall Economy and the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Recent disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems have made it more difficult for companies to access credit and capital markets. Continuing volatility in the credit and capital markets could potentially impair our and our customers ability to access these markets and increase associated costs, and there can be no assurance that we will not be materially affected by these financial market disruptions as economic events and circumstances continue to evolve. In addition, the recent economic downturn may have an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. A recessionary economic cycle, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, or other unfavorable economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which could adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurances that government responses to the economic downturn will restore consumer confidence. We May be Exposed to Counterparty Risks in Certain of Our Financial Instruments. We have access to capital through our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility, each of which is provided by a syndicate of financial institutions. Each financial institution in the syndicate is responsible on a several, but not joint, basis for providing a portion of the loans under each respective facility. If any of the participants in the syndicate fails to satisfy its obligations to extend credit under the facility, the other participants refuse or are unable to assume its obligations, and we are unable to find an alternative source of funding at comparable rates, our liquidity may be adversely affected or our interest expense may increase substantially. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, and currency and interest rates, including swap agreements. Recently, a number of financial 15 Table of Contents institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis and in some cases have been unable to fulfill their debts and other obligations. If any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements becomes unable to fulfill its obligations to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. American International Group (AIG), which currently has an A.M. Best rating of bbb, provides a portion of our overall insurance coverage. Recently, AIG has experienced significant financial issues associated with the troubled credit markets, and has received financial support from the U.S. Government. It is unclear whether the restructuring of AIG will cause AIG to alter its coverage position or reimbursement policies. The inability of AIG to provide coverage under any of our insurance policies could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Strategic Growth Plan Risks We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Strategic Growth Plan. We are implementing a strategic growth plan, which includes a number of transformational initiatives, that we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. These initiatives include centralizing certain of our functions and optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives, or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, lose customers and experience declines in market share. Centralization of certain functions. We are currently realigning certain functions of our business in order to further streamline our organization, improve efficiency and better meet the needs of our customers. These initiatives involve centralizing certain of our purchasing, selling, support and decision making and brand building activities, which we anticipate will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manage our business. Our failure to successfully manage these transitions could cause us to incur unexpected costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the impact of these actions on our earnings growth and profitability may be influenced by factors including but not limited to: (1) our ability to retain and attract key employees and operating officers; (2) our ability to execute these initiatives in a cost effective manner; (3) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers; and (4) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our suppliers. Optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Due to the perishable nature of its products, DSD Dairy delivers the majority of its products through its DSD system. We believe that our DSD system is one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. We also have an extensive network of manufacturing plants across the country. These plants and their related distribution systems were acquired by us over time and are not yet designed or configured to fully maximize productivity and efficiency. We continue to evaluate our entire supply chain and anticipate over the next several years that we will realign our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. However, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to streamline and upgrade our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, we could be faced with unrealized profit potential. Product and Product Manufacturing Risks We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes, dietary preferences and purchasing habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we have increased our investment in innovation in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently 16 Table of Contents several global companies with greater resources which compete with us in the health and wellness space. In 2009, we will be augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non GMO soybeans. Our transition to non GMO soybeans from organic soybeans could impact consumer acceptance of our products. In addition, as consumers become increasingly aware of climate change and the sources of greenhouse gas emissions, to which agriculture, including dairy farming, is a contributor, their preferences and purchasing decisions may change. If our products fail to meet changing consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our product strategy may not succeed. We May Experience Liabilities or Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Product Issues, Such as Product Recalls. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories such as fluid milk that have strong health and wellness credentials. Disruption of Our Supply Chain Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse affect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. Legal and Regulatory Risks Litigation or Legal Proceedings Could Expose Us to Significant Liabilities and Have a Negative Impact on Our Reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and /or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor Disputes Could Adversely Affect Us. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 37% of DSD Dairys and 41% of WhiteWave Morningstars employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims. In addition, proposed legislation, known as The Employee Free Choice Act, could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. 17 Table of Contents Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Dean Foods corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, TX 75201. In addition, Dean Foods operates more than 100 manufacturing facilities. Management believes that Dean Foods facilities are well maintained and are generally suitable and of sufficient capacity to support Dean Foods current business operations and that the loss of any single facility would not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial results. The following tables set forth, by business segment, the Companys principal manufacturing facilities. DSD Dairy DSD Dairy currently conducts its manufacturing operations within the following 83 facilities, most of which are owned: Birmingham, Alabama (2) Buena Park, California (2) City of Industry, California Hayward, California Riverside, California Delta, Colorado Denver, Colorado Englewood, Colorado Greeley, Colorado Miami, Florida Orange City, Florida Orlando, Florida Baxley, Georgia Braselton, Georgia Hilo, Hawaii Honolulu, Hawaii Boise, Idaho Belvidere, Illinois Harvard, Illinois Huntley, Illinois OFallon, Illinois Decatur, Indiana Huntington, Indiana Rochester, Indiana LeMars, Iowa Louisville, Kentucky Newport, Kentucky New Orleans, Louisiana Shreveport, Louisiana Bangor, Maine Franklin, Massachusetts Lynn, Massachusetts Mendon, Massachusetts Evart, Michigan Flint, Michigan Grand Rapids, Michigan Livonia, Michigan Marquette, Michigan Thief River Falls, Minnesota Woodbury, Minnesota Billings, Montana Great Falls, Montana Lincoln, Nebraska Las Vegas, Nevada Reno, Nevada Burlington, New Jersey Albuquerque, New Mexico Rensselaer, New York High Point, North Carolina Winston Salem, North Carolina Bismarck, North Dakota Tulsa, Oklahoma Marietta, Ohio Springfield, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Erie, Pennsylvania Landsdale, Pennsylvania Lebanon, Pennsylvania Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Florence, South Carolina Spartanburg, South Carolina Sioux Falls, South Dakota Athens, Tennessee Kingsport, Tennessee Nashville, Tennessee (2) Dallas, Texas (2) El Paso, Texas Houston, Texas Lubbock, Texas McKinney, Texas San Antonio, Texas Waco, Texas Orem, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Portsmouth, Virginia Richmond, Virginia Springfield, Virginia Sheboygan, Wisconsin Each of DSD Dairys manufacturing facilities also serves as a distribution facility. In addition, DSD Dairy has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. DSD Dairys headquarters are located in Dallas, Texas in leased premises. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstar currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following 20 facilities, most of which are owned: Decatur, Alabama City of Industry, California Fullerton, California Gustine, California Tulare, California Newington, Connecticut Jacksonville, Florida Rockford, Illinois Murray, Kentucky Frederick, Maryland White Bear Lake, Minnesota Bridgeton, New Jersey Delhi, New York Friendship, New York Sulphur Springs, Texas (2) Cedar City, Utah Mt. Crawford, Virginia Richland Center, Wisconsin Aberystwyth, United Kingdom 19 Table of Contents WhiteWave also owns two organic dairy farms located in Paul, Idaho and Kennedyville, Maryland and leases an organic dairy farm in Portales, New Mexico. WhiteWaves headquarters are located in leased premises in Broomfield, Colorado. Morningstars headquarters are located in leased premises in Dallas, Texas. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not party to, nor are our properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, other than set forth below. We were named, among several defendants, in two purported class action antitrust complaints filed on July 5, 2007. The complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, Columbia Division, and allege generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price Southeastern dairy farmers are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities (dairy farmer actions). A third purported class action antitrust complaint (retailer action) was filed on August 9, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The complaint in the retailer action was amended on March 28, 2008. The amended complaint alleges generally that we, either acting alone or in conjunction with others in the milk industry, lessened competition in the Southeastern United States for the sale of processed fluid Grade A milk to retail outlets and other customers, and that the defendants conduct also artificially inflated retail prices for direct milk purchasers. Four additional purported class action complaints were filed on August 27, 2007, October 3, 2007, November 15, 2007 and February 13, 2008 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The allegations in these complaints are similar to those in the dairy farmer actions. On January 7, 2008, a United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred all of the pending cases to the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. On April 1, 2008, the Eastern District Court ordered the consolidation of the six dairy farmer actions, and ordered the retailer action to be administratively consolidated with the coordinated dairy farmer actions. A motion to dismiss the dairy farmer actions was denied on May 20, 2008, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed by the dairy farmer plaintiffs on June 20, 2008. A joint motion to dismiss the retailer action was filed on October 22, 2007, and is currently pending before the Court. A hearing on the joint motion was held on January 6, 2009. These matters are currently in discovery and we intend to vigorously defend them. On January 18, 2008, our subsidiary, Kohler Mix Specialties, LLC (Kohler), was named as defendant in a civil complaint filed in the Superior Court, Judicial District of Hartford. The plaintiff in the case is the Commissioner of Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut. The complaint alleges generally that Kohler improperly discharged wastewater into the waters of the State of Connecticut, and bypassed certain wastewater treatment equipment. The plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief to correct the sources of pollution and to comply with all applicable regulations, and also civil penalties with respect to the claims. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters set forth above. Other than the matters set forth above, we are party from time to time to certain claims, litigation, audits and investigations and we believe that we have established adequate reserves to satisfy any potential liability we may have under these claims, litigations, audits and investigations that are currently pending. In our opinion, the settlement of any such currently pending or threatened matter is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders We did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008 through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DF. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At February 18, 2009, there were 4,529 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2007: First Quarter $ 48.31 $ 41.26 Second Quarter 47.33 31.00 Third Quarter 31.85 24.30 Fourth Quarter 27.77 24.51 2008: First Quarter 28.90 19.49 Second Quarter 23.65 18.36 Third Quarter 25.65 17.95 Fourth Quarter 24.42 11.51 We have not historically declared or paid a regular cash dividend on our common stock. However, on April 2, 2007, we declared a special cash dividend of $15 per share, which decreased our stock price. We have no current plans to pay a cash dividend in the future. No adjustment has been made to the historical stock prices related to the impact of the cash dividend. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior secured credit facility, including terms restricting the payment of dividends. Stock Repurchases Since 1998, our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized the repurchase of our common stock up to an aggregate of $2.3 billion, excluding fees and expense. We made no share repurchases in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, $218.7 million was available for repurchases under this program (excluding fees and commissions). Repurchased shares are retired. 21 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2008 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales $ 12,454,613 $ 11,821,903 $ 10,098,555 $ 10,174,718 $ 9,725,548 Cost of sales 9,509,359 9,084,318 7,358,676 7,591,548 7,338,138 Gross profit(1) 2,945,254 2,737,585 2,739,879 2,583,170 2,387,410 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,817,690 1,721,617 1,648,860 1,581,028 1,472,112 General and administrative 486,280 419,518 409,225 380,490 355,772 Amortization of intangibles 9,836 6,744 5,983 6,106 5,105 Facility closing and reorganization costs 22,758 34,421 25,116 35,451 24,575 Other operating (income) expense(2) 1,688 (5,899 ) Total operating costs and expenses 2,336,564 2,183,988 2,089,184 2,003,075 1,851,665 Operating income 608,690 553,597 650,695 580,095 535,745 Other (income) expense: Interest expense(3)(7) 308,080 333,202 194,547 160,230 191,788 Other (income) expense, net 933 5,926 435 (683 ) (722 ) Total other expense 309,013 339,128 194,982 159,547 191,066 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 299,677 214,469 455,713 420,548 344,679 Income taxes 114,837 84,007 175,450 163,898 138,472 Income from continuing operations 184,840 130,462 280,263 256,650 206,207 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax (1,275 ) 608 (1,978 ) 38,763 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 205 283 (52,871 ) 14,793 47,514 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 183,770 131,353 225,414 310,206 253,721 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax(4) (1,552 ) Net income $ 183,770 $ 131,353 $ 225,414 $ 308,654 $ 253,721 Cash dividend paid per share $ $ 15.00 $ $ $ Basic earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 1.24 $ 1.00 $ 2.09 $ 1.75 $ 1.33 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) 0.01 (0.41 ) 0.36 0.31 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.01 ) Net income $ 1.23 $ 1.01 $ 1.68 $ 2.10 $ 1.64 Diluted earnings per common share: Income from continuing operations $ 1.21 $ 0.95 $ 2.01 $ 1.67 $ 1.28 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) 0.01 (0.40 ) 0.35 0.30 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.01 ) Net income $ 1.20 $ 0.96 $ 1.61 $ 2.01 $ 1.58 Average common shares: Basic 149,266,519 130,310,811 133,938,777 146,673,322 154,635,979 Diluted 153,395,746 137,291,998 139,762,104 153,438,636 160,704,576 Other data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(5) 1.82 x 1.56 x 2.87 x 3.01 x 2.69 x 22 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in thousands) Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 7,040,192 $ 7,033,356 $ 6,770,173 $ 7,050,884 $ 7,756,368 Long term debt(6)(7) 4,489,251 5,272,351 3,355,851 3,386,848 3,214,269 Other long term liabilities 412,322 320,256 238,682 225,479 321,252 Total stockholders equity(7)(8) 558,234 51,267 1,809,399 1,902,213 2,692,985 (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. (2) Results for 2007 include a loss of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our tofu business. Results for 2004 include a gain of $5.9 million primarily related to the settlement of litigation. (3) Results for 2007 and 2004 include a charge of $13.5 million and $32.6 million, respectively, to write off financing costs related to the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility. (4) In the fourth quarter of 2005, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. If FIN 47 had always been in effect, we would have expensed this amount for depreciation in periods prior to January 1, 2005. (5) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (6) Includes the current portion of long term debt. (7) On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering which were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet with the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record as of March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. (8) Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. As a result, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. The balance at December 31, 2006 reflects a $14.8 million reduction related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The reduction had no impact on net income. 23 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Our DSD Dairy segment (DSD Dairy) is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. Our WhiteWave Morningstar segment (WhiteWave Morningstar) markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk&reg; soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic&reg; milk and other dairy products, International Delight&reg; coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES&reg; creamers, Rachels Organic&reg; dairy products and other fluid dairy products. Additionally, WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. During 2007, we began aligning our leadership teams and strategy around distinct supply chain and delivery channels. Effective January 1, 2008, consistent with this direction, we disaggregated the former Dairy Group segment into a DSD Dairy fluid and ice cream platform and a Morningstar platform. The Morningstar platform is now a part of WhiteWave Morningstar. All segment results have been recast to present results on a comparable basis. These changes had no impact on consolidated net sales or operating income. DSD Dairy DSD Dairy is our largest segment, with approximately 78.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2008. DSD Dairy manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, juices and teas, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of its products, DSD Dairy delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that DSD Dairy has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. DSD Dairy sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by DSD Dairys corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation led by us. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline while total consumption has remained relatively flat due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains flat to modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure caused by the ongoing consolidation among food retailers, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and cost reduction in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. Historically, DSD Dairys volume growth has kept pace with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition and service quality. DSD Dairy has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases DSD Dairy pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were approximately 21.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2008. WhiteWave Morningstar manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, The Organic Cow&reg; organic dairy products, International Delight coffee 24 Table of Contents creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. We license the LAND OLAKES name from a third party. With the addition of Morningstar, WhiteWave Morningstar now includes private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. Recent Developments Conventional Milk Environment Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. In January and February 2009, the Class I mover declined significantly from the average for the fourth quarter of 2008. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. Organic Milk Environment The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. The retail price increases on private label products lagged that of branded products, creating pricing pressures and causing retail price gaps to expand. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a noticeable slowing of growth in the organic milk category. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become and will continue to be increasingly price sensitive to organic milk. As a result, we believe we will experience a continued slowdown in 2009 of our organic milk growth rate. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category and remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. We purchase organic raw milk from our network of over 400 organic family farms using multi year purchase agreements. We anticipate that such agreements will be sufficient to meet our anticipated demand in 2009. As the category growth slows in 2009, it is possible that the industry will be faced with an oversupply position potentially resulting in additional discounting. Public Offering of Equity Securities On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions During 2008, we completed several acquisitions for which the aggregate purchase price was approximately $95.9 million, including transaction costs. Significant acquisition opportunities continue to exist, which are attributable to continued fragmentation in the industry, tightening of financial markets and shifting consumer behavior. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture We have formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, that will introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, called Hero/WhiteWave, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering, with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, will serve as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging each others established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The initial product of the joint venture will be launched in the middle of 2009 under the Fruit2DayTM brand. The initial products will expand the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity. In 2008, we spent $20.4 million related to this joint venture in the form of cash and capital expenditures, of which $7.7 million was contributed to the joint venture as of December 31, 2008. We expect our 2009 earnings will be negatively impacted as Hero/WhiteWave commences operations and incurs start up and introductory marketing costs. Pension Costs and Funding Due to the turmoil in the financial markets in 2008, we experienced significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust used to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. As a result, our funded status as of December 31, 2008 significantly declined from the prior year, and will require an increase in future funding, as well as increase our plan costs. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2008, we recorded a charge of $22.8 million as part of our ongoing supply chain and costs savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $18.3 million in our DSD Dairy operations primarily related to the closure of ice cream operations in Hickory, North Carolina; the closure of facilities in Kalispell, Montana and Denver, Colorado; as well as other previously announced plans. We also recorded a charge of $4.5 million in our WhiteWave Morningstar operations related to the closure of a facility in Belleville, Pennsylvania. These costs include the following types of cash and non cash charges: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value. We are marketing these properties for sale. We expect to incur additional charges related to these restructuring plans of $3.4 million, primarily in 2009. We anticipate that we will close additional facilities as we continue the evaluation of our supply chain; however, we cannot currently predict the timing or related charges with respect to such closures. Additionally, we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities for centralization of activities, which could result in additional charges in the future. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,454.6 100.0 % $ 11,821.9 100.0 % $ 10,098.6 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,509.3 76.4 9,084.3 76.8 7,358.7 72.9 Gross profit(1) 2,945.3 23.6 2,737.6 23.2 2,739.9 27.1 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,817.7 14.6 1,721.7 14.6 1,648.9 16.3 General and administrative 486.3 3.9 419.5 3.5 409.2 4.1 Amortization of intangibles 9.8 0.1 6.7 0.1 6.0 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 22.8 0.1 34.4 0.3 25.1 0.2 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,336.6 18.7 2,184.0 18.5 2,089.2 20.7 Operating income $ 608.7 4.9 % $ 553.6 4.7 % $ 650.7 6.4 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2008 2007 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 9,804.6 $ 9,411.1 $ 393.5 4.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,650.0 2,410.8 239.2 9.9 Total $ 12,454.6 $ 11,821.9 $ 632.7 5.4 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2008 vs. 2007 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 155.3 $ (26.2 ) $ 264.4 $ 393.5 WhiteWave Morningstar 19.6 148.6 71.0 239.2 Total $ 174.9 $ 122.4 $ 335.4 $ 632.7 Net sales increased during 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to the higher pass through of overall dairy and commodity costs and acquisitions completed in 2008 in DSD Dairy, as well as continued strong volume growth at WhiteWave Morningstar in both our national brands and cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased $425.0 million, or 4.7%, during 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher raw material and packaging costs of $207.5 million, higher raw milk costs of $126.6 million and increased employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $152.6 million, or 7.0%, during 2008 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $96.0 million primarily due to higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs of $56.2 million, increased personnel related costs of $21.4 million and higher advertising expenses of $9.4 million; General and administrative costs increased $66.8 million primarily due to personnel related costs of $32.1 million, which was significantly impacted by incentive based compensation of $29.8 million; higher professional fees and other outside services of $11.0 million, primarily related to strategic corporate driven initiatives, as well as increased costs related to contemplated strategic transactions of $4.4 million; The increases above were partly offset by net facility closing, reorganization and other costs that were $13.3 million lower than 2007. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $308.1 million in 2008 from $333.2 million in 2007 primarily due to a lower average debt balance during 2008 driven by the reduction in debt related to our $400 million paydown of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility with proceeds from our equity offering on March 5, 2008, as well as the paydown of debt with cash flow from operations. In addition, we wrote off $13.5 million in financing costs in 2007 due to the completion of our senior secured credit facility and incurred $5.0 million of professional fees and other costs related to the payment of a special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.3% in 2008 compared to 39.2% in 2007. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Results by Segment DSD Dairy The key performance indicators of DSD Dairy are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,804.6 100.0 % $ 9,411.1 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,559.8 77.1 7,320.5 77.8 Gross profit 2,244.8 22.9 2,090.6 22.2 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.5 16.9 1,552.6 16.5 Total operating income $ 591.3 6.0 % $ 538.0 5.7 % Net Sales The increase in DSD Dairys net sales of 4.2% was due primarily to the higher pass through of overall dairy and other commodity costs to customers, as well as acquisitions completed in 2008. DSD Dairy generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price 28 Table of Contents increases. This can have a negative impact on DSD Dairys profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2008 compared to 2007: Year Ended December 31* 2008 2007 % Change Class I mover(1) 18.00 $ 18.14 (0.8 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 12.94 13.47 (3.9 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.57 1.47 6.8 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 11.13 13.67 (18.6 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.57 1.48 6.1 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. In addition to a challenging commodity environment, we face an intensely competitive environment with higher pricing sensitivity by our customers, as well as continued consolidation in the retail grocery industry resulting in increased competition for a smaller customer base. Despite these challenges, we continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through initiatives such as the reduction in workforce executed in 2007, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers, and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. DSD Dairys cost of sales increased by $239.3 million, or 3.3%, during 2008 driven by higher raw material and packaging costs, particularly resin and raw milk, of $182.5 million; increased employee related costs of $28.4 million as well as higher utilities and equipment costs of $20.9 million. Operating Costs and Expenses DSD Dairys operating costs and expenses increased by $100.9 million, or 6.5%, during 2008. The increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs of $51.6 million driven by higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs of $59.4 million slightly offset by lower outside services; higher personnel related costs of $49.5 million, due primarily to increased salaries and wages and incentive based compensation. 29 Table of Contents DSD Dairys operating income was approximately 9.9% above year ago levels. In addition to the factors described above, DSD Dairys results benefited from tight cost controls across the business including continued benefits from the reduction in workforce completed in the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as disciplined pricing execution to offset continued commodity volatility and inflationary pressure across the cost spectrum. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,650.0 100.0 % $ 2,410.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,952.7 73.7 1,762.4 73.1 Gross profit 697.3 26.3 648.4 26.9 Operating costs and expenses 491.9 18.6 443.4 18.4 Total operating income $ 205.4 7.7 % $ 205.0 8.5 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 9.9% was driven by a mix of both increased volumes and higher pricing, primarily in response to higher raw material and commodity costs. During 2008, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 11.5% to $1.53 billion, with continued strong sales growth across all of our key brands. Silk net sales increased approximately 10% in 2008 driven by volume growth from continued distribution expansion and integrated marketing that featured both print and television advertising highlighting the health benefits of our soymilk products, as well as higher pricing. Net sales of the Horizon Organic brand increased approximately 18% in 2008 driven by continued distribution expansion and differentiated innovation like our DHA enhanced and single serve products, as well as higher realized pricing. International Delight grew net sales approximately 9% in 2008 through improved price realization. LAND OLAKES creamer products grew net sales approximately 6% over last year as a result of both higher volumes and commodity related price increases. Our Morningstar business also posted sales growth during the year, increasing net sales approximately 8% to $1.12 billion, primarily driven by higher yogurt, creamer and ice cream mix sales volumes, as well as the full year benefit of an acquisition which was completed in March 2007. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $190.3 million, or 10.8%, during 2008 driven by higher volumes and increased raw milk costs of $102.5 million as well as higher other raw material and packaging costs of $51.2 million and higher employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $48.5 million, or 10.9%, during 2008 primarily due to increased selling and marketing expense of $12.2 million driven by higher advertising spending on our brands, increased distribution costs of $14.5 million driven by higher volumes, higher personnel related costs of $9.4 million, including incentive based compensation, as well as higher outside services and other costs of $11.8 million. 30 Table of Contents Although WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were higher, with strong sales growth across all of our key brands and in the Morningstar business, our operating profits were relatively flat at 0.2% above year ago levels. While the majority of the portfolio did increase profitability during the year, segment operating income continued to be adversely affected by challenges in the Horizon Organic brand where price increases were more than offset by higher organic raw milk and other commodity costs, as well as decreased profitability at Morningstar primarily due to higher commodity costs, particularly higher Class II butter prices, of which the pass through lagged the cost inflation. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2007 2006 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 9,411.1 $ 8,030.7 $ 1,380.4 17.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,410.8 2,067.9 342.9 16.6 Total $ 11,821.9 $ 10,098.6 $ 1,723.3 17.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2007 vs. 2006 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 10.8 $ (41.2 ) $ 1,410.8 $ 1,380.4 WhiteWave Morningstar 87.9 117.1 137.9 342.9 Total $ 98.7 $ 75.9 $ 1,548.7 $ 1,723.3 Net sales increased during 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices, other commodity and distribution costs. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by $1.72 billion, or 23.4%, during 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher conventional and organic raw milk costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat, impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $94.8 million, or 4.5%, during 2007 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $72.8 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, outside storage, advertising and bad debt expense. General and administrative costs increased $10.3 million on higher employee costs, professional fees and infrastructure costs, partially offset by lower incentive based compensation costs under plans tied to operating performance. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $9.3 million higher than 2006. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 18.5% for 2007 as compared to 20.7% for 2006 primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that outpaced growth in operating costs and expenses. 31 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $333.2 million in 2007 from $194.5 million in 2006 primarily due to higher average debt balances and interest rates. The higher debt balances resulted from the recapitalization of our balance sheet in April 2007 and payment of the special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2% in 2007 compared to 38.5% in 2006. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results by Segment DSD Dairy The key performance indicators of DSD Dairy are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,411.1 100.0 % $ 8,030.7 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,320.5 77.8 5,894.8 73.4 Gross profit 2,090.6 22.2 2,135.9 26.6 Operating costs and expenses 1,552.6 16.5 1,525.6 19.0 Total operating income $ 538.0 5.7 % $ 610.3 7.6 % Net Sales The increase in DSD Dairys net sales of 17.2% was due largely to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices. DSD Dairy generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on DSD Dairys profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2007 compared to 2006: Year Ended December 31* 2007 2006 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.14 $ 11.88 52.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 13.47 7.47 80.3 Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.47 1.34 9.7 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 13.67 7.35 86.0 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.48 1.33 11.3 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. 32 Table of Contents Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs, which created a challenging operating environment. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 was flat compared to prior year levels. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. DSD Dairys cost of sales increased by $1.43 billion, or 24.2% in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher conventional raw milk costs, resin and packaging, partially offset by lower conversion costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat, impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Operating Costs and Expenses DSD Dairys operating costs and expenses increased by $27.0 million, or 1.8%, during 2007. This increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs of $40.9 million primarily due to higher personnel related costs, fuel and delivery equipment, partially offset by lower general and administrative costs of $13.3 million primarily due to lower incentive based compensation costs under plans tied to operating performance. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,410.8 100.0 % $ 2,067.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,762.4 73.1 1,462.6 70.7 Gross profit 648.4 26.9 605.3 29.3 Operating costs and expenses 443.4 18.4 398.2 19.3 Total operating income $ 205.0 8.5 % $ 207.1 10.0 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 16.6% was principally driven by a mix of both higher pricing and increased volumes, as well as the benefit of an acquisition completed in March 2007. During 2007, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 9.2% to $1.37 billion. Silk, International Delight and LAND OLAKES products grew volumes in the high single digits due primarily to both increased pricing and consumer acceptance, and more effective marketing of our products. The pricing increases were largely offset by lower pricing on Horizon Organic products as a result of an increase in competitive activity and market conditions surrounding organic dairy products. Our Morningstar business also posted strong sales growth during the year, increasing net sales 28.0% to $1.04 billion, primarily driven by higher extended shelf life dairy products and ice cream mix volumes, as well as the benefit of an acquisition completed in March 2007. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to 33 Table of Contents purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing approximately 18% for the year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of WhiteWave Morningstar. The market for organic milk began to shift back to an undersupply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $299.8 million, or 20.5%, during 2007 primarily driven by higher volumes and increasing higher raw material and commodity costs. Raw material and commodity costs increased $278.2 million, including conventional and organic raw milk costs of $164.0 million. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $45.2 million, or 11.4%, in 2007 primarily due to increased distribution costs of $20.9 million, driven by higher volumes and rising fuel costs, increased general and administrative expenses of $10.5 million and higher personnel related costs of $10.8 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Recently, worldwide capital and credit markets have seen unprecedented volatility. We have assessed the potential impact of these market conditions on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, these market conditions have not had any material adverse impact on our liquidity. Based on information available to us, each of the financial institutions syndicated under our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility are able to fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. However, there can be no assurance that each financial institution will be able to continue to fulfill its funding obligations. Notwithstanding the above, we believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our existing $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow our Company to meet our cash requirements. We may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. At December 31, 2008, we had $4.49 billion of outstanding debt obligations and cash on hand of $36.0 million. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as, other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios as discussed in more detail below. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance. As of December 31, 2008, we had a corporate family credit rating of BB with a negative outlook from Standard & Poors Ratings Services and a corporate family credit rating of B1 with a stable outlook from Moodys Investors Service. Our credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. 34 Table of Contents Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Change Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 719,258 $ 350,250 $ 369,008 Investing activities (341,487 ) (351,924 ) 10,437 Financing activities (373,043 ) (7,616 ) (365,427 ) Discontinued operations (1,304 ) 10,705 (12,009 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,424 $ 1,415 $ 2,009 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased due to higher net earnings and non cash charges (primarily deferred taxes) as well as a significant decrease in our working capital requirements. Our working capital requirements declined primarily due to the decrease in accounts receivable and the increase in accrued income taxes. Accounts receivable was a cash source of $63.2 million in 2008 compared to a cash usage of $106.7 million in 2007. The change in accounts receivable is driven by the lower average accounts receivable balance in 2008 as compared to 2007 related to the pass through of significantly higher raw milk and other commodity costs in 2007. Accrued income taxes provided a source of cash of $45.0 million in 2008 compared to a use of cash of $32.0 million in the prior year, related to the relative profitability throughout 2007 of our operating segments. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2008 primarily due to a reduction in spending on acquisitions, offset slightly by an increase in capital expenditures. In 2008, we made approximately $257.0 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions requiring the use of approximately $95.9 million in cash. During 2007, we made approximately $241.4 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions, including the acquisition of Friendship Dairies by our Morningstar platform, requiring the use of approximately $132.2 million in cash, and received net proceeds of $12.2 million from divestitures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2008 primarily due to cash payments of debt of approximately $804.1 million with cash generated from operations and an equity offering completed in March 2008. We issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The weighted average interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 2.84% at December 31, 2008. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. 35 Table of Contents The term loan A is payable in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of: $56.25 million in each of the first eight installments, beginning on June 30, 2009 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments, beginning on June 30, 2011 and ending on April 2, 2012. The term loan B amortizes 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The senior secured revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion senior secured revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the senior secured revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our Leverage Ratio is below 5.00 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance. As of December 31, 2008, our Leverage Ratio was 4.92 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio as of December 31, 2008 is 5.75 times and will decline to 5.00 times as of December 31, 2009. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. At December 31, 2008, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.27 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.84 billion at December 31, 2007), all of which were term loan borrowings. The decrease of $568.3 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to the paydown of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility as a result of the issuance and sale of 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. At December 31, 2008, there were $176.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 18, 2009, $160.0 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. 36 Table of Contents In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million receivables backed facility subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. As of December 31, 2008, the receivables backed facility had $600.0 million available, of which $460.0 million was drawn. The weighted average interest rate on this facility at December 31, 2008 was 2.72%. At February 18, 2009, $200.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2008 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes, $273 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, and $8.5 million of capital lease and other obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we repurchased in the open market, at a combined discount below par value, $77.0 million of Legacy Deans senior notes that mature May 15, 2009. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our indebtedness. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2008. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase & Lease Obligations(1) Payments Due by Period Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,268.5 $ 186.8 $ 243.0 $ 861.7 $ 280.5 $ 18.0 $ 1,678.5 Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 273.0 123.0 150.0 Receivables backed facility 460.0 460.0 Capital lease obligations and other 8.5 6.6 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Purchase obligations(3) 867.5 539.1 166.4 48.0 16.9 17.1 80.0 Operating leases 413.7 113.1 94.8 74.5 55.9 41.6 33.8 Interest payments(4) 997.5 217.4 194.3 174.5 135.0 131.1 145.2 Total $ 6,788.7 $ 1,186.0 $ 1,159.0 $ 1,159.1 $ 488.7 $ 208.1 $ 2,587.8 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $41.7 million accrued under FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined benefit retirement and other post employment benefit plans. See note 13 for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on interest rate swaps, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2008. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. 37 Table of Contents Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2008, we recorded non cash pension expense of $4.4 million, of which $2.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $5.3 million in 2007, of which $4.9 million was attributable to periodic expense and $437,000 was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. In excess of 80% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.40% at December 31, 2007 to 6.32% at December 31, 2008, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2009. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. The Investment Committee previously adopted a long term investment policy for the master trust that targets investments in equity securities between 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25% to 35%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Investment Committee retained an independent advisor to perform an asset liability management study and develop projections of funding and expense requirements of various alternatives. The Investment Committee anticipates completing this project in early 2009 with a likely outcome of an increased weighting toward fixed income investments. In light of the work in process, the Investment Committee elected to defer rebalancing of the master trust in the fourth quarter of 2008. At December 31, 2008, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 59%; fixed income securities 40%; and cash and cash equivalents 1%. Consistent with the Investment Committees likely increased weighting toward fixed income investments, the Investment Committee decided to decrease the expected long term rate of return on plan assets from 8.00% at December 31, 2007 to 7.70% at December 31, 2008. The reduction of the expected long term rate of return on plan assets will increase the net periodic benefit cost in future periods. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not breached or terminated any of our milk supply agreements with DFA. 38 Table of Contents We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2009, we intend to invest a total of approximately $300 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $258 million to $266 million based on current debt levels under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $10 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $315.5 million. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted Leverage Ratio of 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2008, this Leverage Ratio was 4.92 times. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 5.00 times and 4.50 times as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. This reduced Leverage Ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2008, $140 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $1.32 billion also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Of this amount, approximately $749 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 18, 2009, approximately $1.51 billion was available under the receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform is conventional raw milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk, and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price, and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). 39 Table of Contents In general, DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform change the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. In January and February 2009, the Class I mover declined significantly from the average for the fourth quarter of 2008. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 80% of our organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. The retail price increases on private label products lagged that of branded products, creating pricing pressures and causing retail price gaps to expand. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a noticeable slowing of growth in the organic milk category. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become and will continue to be increasingly price sensitive to organic milk. As a result, we believe we will experience a continued slowdown in 2009 of our organic milk growth rate. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category and remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we will be augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non GMO soybeans. We expect that the launch of these new products will shift a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. In 2009, we do not believe our overall costs for soybeans will differ materially from 2008 and we have already secured the majority of our anticipated needs for soybeans for 2009. 40 Table of Contents Fuel and Resin costs DSD Dairy purchases approximately four million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. WhiteWave Morningstar primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. Another significant raw material used by DSD Dairy is resin, which is a petroleum based product used to make plastic bottles. We purchase approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The price of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. Energy and resin inflation escalated in 2007 and peaked in mid 2008 before significantly declining during the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe the prices of both resin and diesel fuel will continue to fluctuate throughout 2009, but be below the 2008 levels. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in DSD Dairy, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to pricing are becoming more widespread in our business. We expect these trends to continue and intensify. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our customers, including our largest customers, and to the extent such contracts do exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates, and the disclosure in this section of this report regarding them, with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $17.5 million, or 2.0% of the accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2008. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of accounts receivable, was 2.2% at December 31, 2007. In 2008, we recorded $2.3 million in bad debt expense. Each 0.10% change in the ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to accounts receivable would impact bad debt expense by $872,000. Property, Plant and Equipment Our property, plant and equipment totaled $1.82 billion as of December 31, 2008. Such assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.65 billion as of December 31, 2008 resulting primarily from acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated 41 Table of Contents to identifiable assets and liabilities, including trademarks and customer related intangible assets, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. Goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortized. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Currently, our reporting units are our three platforms, DSD Dairy, WhiteWave and Morningstar. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that the assumptions used in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in materially different calculations of fair values. We did not recognize any impairment charges related to goodwill during 2008, 2007 or 2006. Based on our analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, the sum of the fair values of our reporting units was in excess of the Companys market capitalization. We believe that the difference between the fair value and market capitalization is reasonable (in the context of assessing whether any asset impairment exists) when market based control premiums are taken into account and in light of the volatility in the equity markets in the latter part of 2008. In 2008, we recognized an impairment charge of $2.3 million related to three perpetual trademarks for regional brands in DSD Dairy. The write downs were the result of lower annualized sales volumes from certain facilities partly related to movement of production between regional brands. During 2007 and 2006, we recognized immaterial impairment charges related to certain trademarks as a result of the decision to close facilities and shift customers from one regional brand to another. Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. The Investment Committee previously adopted a long term investment policy for the master trust that targets investments in equity securities between 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income securities at 25% to 35%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Investment Committee retained an independent advisor to perform an asset liability management study and develop projections of funding and expense requirements of various alternatives. The Investment Committee anticipates completing this project in early 2009 42 Table of Contents with a likely outcome of an increased weighting toward fixed income securities. In light of the work in process, the Investment Committee elected to defer rebalancing of the master trust in the fourth quarter of 2008. At December 31, 2008, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 59%; fixed income securities 40%; and cash and cash equivalents 1%. Consistent with the Investment Committees likely increased weighting toward fixed income investments, the Investment Committee decided to decrease the expected long term rate of return on plan assets from 8.00% at December 31, 2007 to 7.70% at December 31, 2008. The reduction of the expected long term rate of return on plan assets will increase the net periodic benefit cost in future periods. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.40% at December 31, 2007, to 6.32% at December 31, 2008, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2009. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $462,000 and $657,000, respectively. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by $183,000. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $197.5 million and $180.4 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets, including the benefit of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are evaluated based on the guidelines for realization and are reduced by a valuation allowance if deemed necessary. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets. Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect our recorded deferred income taxes and our tax rate in the future. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our net deferred income tax liability was $341.4 million and $353.4 million, respectively. A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period, which could have an impact on our earnings. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $41.7 million and $46.1 million, respectively. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued staff position No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active (FSP FAS 157 3) in October 2008. FSP FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (which we adopted effective January 1, 2008), in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. FSP FAS 43 Table of Contents 157 3 was effective for us on September 30, 2008 for all financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in our Consolidated Financial Statement on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of this provision did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value and non financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually). SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a basis for considering assumptions, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model derived valuations, in which all significant inputs are observable in active market. Level 3 Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions. In addition, SFAS No. 157 requires disclosures about the use of fair value to measure assets and liabilities to enable the assessment of inputs used to develop fair value measures, and for unobservable inputs, to determine the effects of the measurements on earnings. We have not yet adopted SFAS No. 157 for non financial assets and liabilities, in accordance with FSP FAS 157 2. FSP FAS 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 to January 1, 2009, for all non financial assets and non financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. SFAS No. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations, in December 2007. SFAS No. 141(R) contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities, including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition such as contingencies and research and development. In addition, acquisition related costs must be expensed as incurred. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we wrote off the remaining immaterial amount of deferred costs for strategic transactions that were not consummated as of December 31, 2008. The provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. The FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, in December 2007. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. 44 Table of Contents The FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosure About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, in March 2008. SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency and interest rates, including swap agreements. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility rising above the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, recently a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis and in some cases have been unable to fulfill their debt and other obligations. If any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates, and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Butterfat DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform utilize a significant amount of butterfat to produce Class II products. This butterfat is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Butterfat acquired in raw milk is priced based on the Class II butterfat price in federal orders, which is announced near the end of the applicable month. The Class II butterfat price can generally be tied to the pricing of AA butter traded on the CME. The cost of butterfat acquired in bulk cream is typically based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the CME. From time to time, we purchase butter futures and butter inventory in an effort to better manage our butterfat cost in Class II products. Futures contracts are marked to market in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and physical inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We are exposed to market risk under this risk management strategy if the cost of butter falls below the cost that we have agreed to pay in a futures contract or that we actually paid for the physical inventory and we are unable to pass on the difference to our customers. As of December 31, 2008, we had no material physical or financial positions. Other We currently do not have material exposure to foreign currency risk as we do not have significant amounts of operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 45 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Our DSD Dairy segment (DSD Dairy) is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. Our WhiteWave Morningstar segment (WhiteWave Morningstar) markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk&reg; soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic&reg; milk and other dairy products, International Delight&reg; coffee creamers, LAND OLAKES&reg; creamers, Rachels Organic&reg; dairy products and other fluid dairy products. Additionally, WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. During 2007, we began aligning our leadership teams and strategy around distinct supply chain and delivery channels. Effective January 1, 2008, consistent with this direction, we disaggregated the former Dairy Group segment into a DSD Dairy fluid and ice cream platform and a Morningstar platform. The Morningstar platform is now a part of WhiteWave Morningstar. All segment results have been recast to present results on a comparable basis. These changes had no impact on consolidated net sales or operating income. DSD Dairy DSD Dairy is our largest segment, with approximately 78.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2008. DSD Dairy manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, juices and teas, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of its products, DSD Dairy delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that DSD Dairy has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. DSD Dairy sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by DSD Dairys corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation led by us. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline while total consumption has remained relatively flat due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains flat to modest, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure caused by the ongoing consolidation among food retailers, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on product differentiation and cost reduction in an effort to increase consumption, sales and margins. Historically, DSD Dairys volume growth has kept pace with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition and service quality. DSD Dairy has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases DSD Dairy pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were approximately 21.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2008. WhiteWave Morningstar manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, The Organic Cow&reg; organic dairy products, International Delight coffee 24 Table of Contents creamers, LAND OLAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. We license the LAND OLAKES name from a third party. With the addition of Morningstar, WhiteWave Morningstar now includes private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown rapidly in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. Recent Developments Conventional Milk Environment Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. In January and February 2009, the Class I mover declined significantly from the average for the fourth quarter of 2008. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. Organic Milk Environment The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. The retail price increases on private label products lagged that of branded products, creating pricing pressures and causing retail price gaps to expand. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a noticeable slowing of growth in the organic milk category. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become and will continue to be increasingly price sensitive to organic milk. As a result, we believe we will experience a continued slowdown in 2009 of our organic milk growth rate. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category and remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. We purchase organic raw milk from our network of over 400 organic family farms using multi year purchase agreements. We anticipate that such agreements will be sufficient to meet our anticipated demand in 2009. As the category growth slows in 2009, it is possible that the industry will be faced with an oversupply position potentially resulting in additional discounting. Public Offering of Equity Securities On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions During 2008, we completed several acquisitions for which the aggregate purchase price was approximately $95.9 million, including transaction costs. Significant acquisition opportunities continue to exist, which are attributable to continued fragmentation in the industry, tightening of financial markets and shifting consumer behavior. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture We have formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, that will introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, called Hero/WhiteWave, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering, with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, will serve as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging each others established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The initial product of the joint venture will be launched in the middle of 2009 under the Fruit2DayTM brand. The initial products will expand the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity. In 2008, we spent $20.4 million related to this joint venture in the form of cash and capital expenditures, of which $7.7 million was contributed to the joint venture as of December 31, 2008. We expect our 2009 earnings will be negatively impacted as Hero/WhiteWave commences operations and incurs start up and introductory marketing costs. Pension Costs and Funding Due to the turmoil in the financial markets in 2008, we experienced significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust used to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. As a result, our funded status as of December 31, 2008 significantly declined from the prior year, and will require an increase in future funding, as well as increase our plan costs. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In 2008, we recorded a charge of $22.8 million as part of our ongoing supply chain and costs savings initiatives. We recorded a charge of $18.3 million in our DSD Dairy operations primarily related to the closure of ice cream operations in Hickory, North Carolina; the closure of facilities in Kalispell, Montana and Denver, Colorado; as well as other previously announced plans. We also recorded a charge of $4.5 million in our WhiteWave Morningstar operations related to the closure of a facility in Belleville, Pennsylvania. These costs include the following types of cash and non cash charges: Workforce reductions as a result of facility closings, facility reorganizations and consolidation of administrative functions; Shutdown costs, including those costs necessary to prepare abandoned facilities for closure; Costs incurred after shutdown, such as lease obligations or termination costs, utilities and property taxes; Costs associated with the centralization of certain finance and transaction processing activities from local to regional facilities; and Write downs of property, plant and equipment and other assets, primarily for asset impairments as a result of facilities that are no longer used in operations. The impairments relate primarily to owned buildings, land and equipment at the facilities, which are written down to their estimated fair value. We are marketing these properties for sale. We expect to incur additional charges related to these restructuring plans of $3.4 million, primarily in 2009. We anticipate that we will close additional facilities as we continue the evaluation of our supply chain; however, we cannot currently predict the timing or related charges with respect to such closures. Additionally, we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities for centralization of activities, which could result in additional charges in the future. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,454.6 100.0 % $ 11,821.9 100.0 % $ 10,098.6 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,509.3 76.4 9,084.3 76.8 7,358.7 72.9 Gross profit(1) 2,945.3 23.6 2,737.6 23.2 2,739.9 27.1 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,817.7 14.6 1,721.7 14.6 1,648.9 16.3 General and administrative 486.3 3.9 419.5 3.5 409.2 4.1 Amortization of intangibles 9.8 0.1 6.7 0.1 6.0 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 22.8 0.1 34.4 0.3 25.1 0.2 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,336.6 18.7 2,184.0 18.5 2,089.2 20.7 Operating income $ 608.7 4.9 % $ 553.6 4.7 % $ 650.7 6.4 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2008 2007 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 9,804.6 $ 9,411.1 $ 393.5 4.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,650.0 2,410.8 239.2 9.9 Total $ 12,454.6 $ 11,821.9 $ 632.7 5.4 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2008 vs. 2007 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 155.3 $ (26.2 ) $ 264.4 $ 393.5 WhiteWave Morningstar 19.6 148.6 71.0 239.2 Total $ 174.9 $ 122.4 $ 335.4 $ 632.7 Net sales increased during 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to the higher pass through of overall dairy and commodity costs and acquisitions completed in 2008 in DSD Dairy, as well as continued strong volume growth at WhiteWave Morningstar in both our national brands and cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased $425.0 million, or 4.7%, during 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher raw material and packaging costs of $207.5 million, higher raw milk costs of $126.6 million and increased employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $152.6 million, or 7.0%, during 2008 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $96.0 million primarily due to higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs of $56.2 million, increased personnel related costs of $21.4 million and higher advertising expenses of $9.4 million; General and administrative costs increased $66.8 million primarily due to personnel related costs of $32.1 million, which was significantly impacted by incentive based compensation of $29.8 million; higher professional fees and other outside services of $11.0 million, primarily related to strategic corporate driven initiatives, as well as increased costs related to contemplated strategic transactions of $4.4 million; The increases above were partly offset by net facility closing, reorganization and other costs that were $13.3 million lower than 2007. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $308.1 million in 2008 from $333.2 million in 2007 primarily due to a lower average debt balance during 2008 driven by the reduction in debt related to our $400 million paydown of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility with proceeds from our equity offering on March 5, 2008, as well as the paydown of debt with cash flow from operations. In addition, we wrote off $13.5 million in financing costs in 2007 due to the completion of our senior secured credit facility and incurred $5.0 million of professional fees and other costs related to the payment of a special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.3% in 2008 compared to 39.2% in 2007. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Results by Segment DSD Dairy The key performance indicators of DSD Dairy are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,804.6 100.0 % $ 9,411.1 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,559.8 77.1 7,320.5 77.8 Gross profit 2,244.8 22.9 2,090.6 22.2 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.5 16.9 1,552.6 16.5 Total operating income $ 591.3 6.0 % $ 538.0 5.7 % Net Sales The increase in DSD Dairys net sales of 4.2% was due primarily to the higher pass through of overall dairy and other commodity costs to customers, as well as acquisitions completed in 2008. DSD Dairy generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price 28 Table of Contents increases. This can have a negative impact on DSD Dairys profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2008 compared to 2007: Year Ended December 31* 2008 2007 % Change Class I mover(1) 18.00 $ 18.14 (0.8 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 12.94 13.47 (3.9 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.57 1.47 6.8 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 11.13 13.67 (18.6 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.57 1.48 6.1 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. In addition to a challenging commodity environment, we face an intensely competitive environment with higher pricing sensitivity by our customers, as well as continued consolidation in the retail grocery industry resulting in increased competition for a smaller customer base. Despite these challenges, we continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through initiatives such as the reduction in workforce executed in 2007, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers, and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. DSD Dairys cost of sales increased by $239.3 million, or 3.3%, during 2008 driven by higher raw material and packaging costs, particularly resin and raw milk, of $182.5 million; increased employee related costs of $28.4 million as well as higher utilities and equipment costs of $20.9 million. Operating Costs and Expenses DSD Dairys operating costs and expenses increased by $100.9 million, or 6.5%, during 2008. The increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs of $51.6 million driven by higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs of $59.4 million slightly offset by lower outside services; higher personnel related costs of $49.5 million, due primarily to increased salaries and wages and incentive based compensation. 29 Table of Contents DSD Dairys operating income was approximately 9.9% above year ago levels. In addition to the factors described above, DSD Dairys results benefited from tight cost controls across the business including continued benefits from the reduction in workforce completed in the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as disciplined pricing execution to offset continued commodity volatility and inflationary pressure across the cost spectrum. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,650.0 100.0 % $ 2,410.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,952.7 73.7 1,762.4 73.1 Gross profit 697.3 26.3 648.4 26.9 Operating costs and expenses 491.9 18.6 443.4 18.4 Total operating income $ 205.4 7.7 % $ 205.0 8.5 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 9.9% was driven by a mix of both increased volumes and higher pricing, primarily in response to higher raw material and commodity costs. During 2008, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 11.5% to $1.53 billion, with continued strong sales growth across all of our key brands. Silk net sales increased approximately 10% in 2008 driven by volume growth from continued distribution expansion and integrated marketing that featured both print and television advertising highlighting the health benefits of our soymilk products, as well as higher pricing. Net sales of the Horizon Organic brand increased approximately 18% in 2008 driven by continued distribution expansion and differentiated innovation like our DHA enhanced and single serve products, as well as higher realized pricing. International Delight grew net sales approximately 9% in 2008 through improved price realization. LAND OLAKES creamer products grew net sales approximately 6% over last year as a result of both higher volumes and commodity related price increases. Our Morningstar business also posted sales growth during the year, increasing net sales approximately 8% to $1.12 billion, primarily driven by higher yogurt, creamer and ice cream mix sales volumes, as well as the full year benefit of an acquisition which was completed in March 2007. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $190.3 million, or 10.8%, during 2008 driven by higher volumes and increased raw milk costs of $102.5 million as well as higher other raw material and packaging costs of $51.2 million and higher employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $48.5 million, or 10.9%, during 2008 primarily due to increased selling and marketing expense of $12.2 million driven by higher advertising spending on our brands, increased distribution costs of $14.5 million driven by higher volumes, higher personnel related costs of $9.4 million, including incentive based compensation, as well as higher outside services and other costs of $11.8 million. 30 Table of Contents Although WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were higher, with strong sales growth across all of our key brands and in the Morningstar business, our operating profits were relatively flat at 0.2% above year ago levels. While the majority of the portfolio did increase profitability during the year, segment operating income continued to be adversely affected by challenges in the Horizon Organic brand where price increases were more than offset by higher organic raw milk and other commodity costs, as well as decreased profitability at Morningstar primarily due to higher commodity costs, particularly higher Class II butter prices, of which the pass through lagged the cost inflation. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2007 2006 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 9,411.1 $ 8,030.7 $ 1,380.4 17.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,410.8 2,067.9 342.9 16.6 Total $ 11,821.9 $ 10,098.6 $ 1,723.3 17.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2007 vs. 2006 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) DSD Dairy $ 10.8 $ (41.2 ) $ 1,410.8 $ 1,380.4 WhiteWave Morningstar 87.9 117.1 137.9 342.9 Total $ 98.7 $ 75.9 $ 1,548.7 $ 1,723.3 Net sales increased during 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices, other commodity and distribution costs. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased by $1.72 billion, or 23.4%, during 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher conventional and organic raw milk costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat, impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $94.8 million, or 4.5%, during 2007 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $72.8 million due to higher employee costs, fuel and delivery equipment, outside storage, advertising and bad debt expense. General and administrative costs increased $10.3 million on higher employee costs, professional fees and infrastructure costs, partially offset by lower incentive based compensation costs under plans tied to operating performance. Net facility closing and reorganization costs that were $9.3 million higher than 2006. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Our operating expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 18.5% for 2007 as compared to 20.7% for 2006 primarily due to the increase in sales in response to higher commodity costs that outpaced growth in operating costs and expenses. 31 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense Interest expense increased to $333.2 million in 2007 from $194.5 million in 2006 primarily due to higher average debt balances and interest rates. The higher debt balances resulted from the recapitalization of our balance sheet in April 2007 and payment of the special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.2% in 2007 compared to 38.5% in 2006. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2006, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results by Segment DSD Dairy The key performance indicators of DSD Dairy are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,411.1 100.0 % $ 8,030.7 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,320.5 77.8 5,894.8 73.4 Gross profit 2,090.6 22.2 2,135.9 26.6 Operating costs and expenses 1,552.6 16.5 1,525.6 19.0 Total operating income $ 538.0 5.7 % $ 610.3 7.6 % Net Sales The increase in DSD Dairys net sales of 17.2% was due largely to the pass through of higher conventional milk prices. DSD Dairy generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on DSD Dairys profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2007 compared to 2006: Year Ended December 31* 2007 2006 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.14 $ 11.88 52.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 13.47 7.47 80.3 Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.47 1.34 9.7 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 13.67 7.35 86.0 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.48 1.33 11.3 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. 32 Table of Contents Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and record high dairy commodity costs, which created a challenging operating environment. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth, and rising global demand for dairy based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S. produced non fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove the U.S. dairy complex steeply higher in 2007. Competitive pressure and contractual arrangements limited our ability to pass through all of the higher dairy commodity costs in 2007, particularly those increased costs related to inventory shrink in the manufacturing process. Further, market pricing mechanisms surrounding bulk cream negatively impacted our results as the price we were able to realize from the sale of excess bulk cream did not fully reflect the significant increases in raw milk costs. At the same time, as retail prices rose throughout 2007, we saw a softening of sales volumes in certain markets in addition to a shift from branded to private label fluid milk products. This softening was compounded by the loss of a significant customer during the first quarter of 2007. The sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2007 was flat compared to prior year levels. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. DSD Dairys cost of sales increased by $1.43 billion, or 24.2% in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher conventional raw milk costs, resin and packaging, partially offset by lower conversion costs. The higher commodity prices, as well as relative pricing movement between raw skim milk and butterfat, impacted other components of cost of sales including shrink and sale of excess cream. Operating Costs and Expenses DSD Dairys operating costs and expenses increased by $27.0 million, or 1.8%, during 2007. This increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs of $40.9 million primarily due to higher personnel related costs, fuel and delivery equipment, partially offset by lower general and administrative costs of $13.3 million primarily due to lower incentive based compensation costs under plans tied to operating performance. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2007 2006 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,410.8 100.0 % $ 2,067.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,762.4 73.1 1,462.6 70.7 Gross profit 648.4 26.9 605.3 29.3 Operating costs and expenses 443.4 18.4 398.2 19.3 Total operating income $ 205.0 8.5 % $ 207.1 10.0 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 16.6% was principally driven by a mix of both higher pricing and increased volumes, as well as the benefit of an acquisition completed in March 2007. During 2007, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 9.2% to $1.37 billion. Silk, International Delight and LAND OLAKES products grew volumes in the high single digits due primarily to both increased pricing and consumer acceptance, and more effective marketing of our products. The pricing increases were largely offset by lower pricing on Horizon Organic products as a result of an increase in competitive activity and market conditions surrounding organic dairy products. Our Morningstar business also posted strong sales growth during the year, increasing net sales 28.0% to $1.04 billion, primarily driven by higher extended shelf life dairy products and ice cream mix volumes, as well as the benefit of an acquisition completed in March 2007. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to 33 Table of Contents purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. In the past, the industry wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, in 2006 economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming combined with a change in the organic farm transition regulations dramatically increased the growth of supply in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Faced with the potential of losing market share in the organic milk market, we made the strategic decision to defend the long term value of the Horizon Organic brand by increasing our price competitiveness and marketing investment behind the brand in 2007. Our efforts were successful in maintaining and expanding our market share in the organic milk market with the Horizon Organic volume growing approximately 18% for the year. However, the increased level of discounting negatively impacted the profitability of WhiteWave Morningstar. The market for organic milk began to shift back to an undersupply situation in the first quarter of 2008. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $299.8 million, or 20.5%, during 2007 primarily driven by higher volumes and increasing higher raw material and commodity costs. Raw material and commodity costs increased $278.2 million, including conventional and organic raw milk costs of $164.0 million. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $45.2 million, or 11.4%, in 2007 primarily due to increased distribution costs of $20.9 million, driven by higher volumes and rising fuel costs, increased general and administrative expenses of $10.5 million and higher personnel related costs of $10.8 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Recently, worldwide capital and credit markets have seen unprecedented volatility. We have assessed the potential impact of these market conditions on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, these market conditions have not had any material adverse impact on our liquidity. Based on information available to us, each of the financial institutions syndicated under our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility are able to fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. However, there can be no assurance that each financial institution will be able to continue to fulfill its funding obligations. Notwithstanding the above, we believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our existing $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow our Company to meet our cash requirements. We may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. At December 31, 2008, we had $4.49 billion of outstanding debt obligations and cash on hand of $36.0 million. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as, other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios as discussed in more detail below. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance. As of December 31, 2008, we had a corporate family credit rating of BB with a negative outlook from Standard & Poors Ratings Services and a corporate family credit rating of B1 with a stable outlook from Moodys Investors Service. Our credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. 34 Table of Contents Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Change Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 719,258 $ 350,250 $ 369,008 Investing activities (341,487 ) (351,924 ) 10,437 Financing activities (373,043 ) (7,616 ) (365,427 ) Discontinued operations (1,304 ) 10,705 (12,009 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,424 $ 1,415 $ 2,009 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased due to higher net earnings and non cash charges (primarily deferred taxes) as well as a significant decrease in our working capital requirements. Our working capital requirements declined primarily due to the decrease in accounts receivable and the increase in accrued income taxes. Accounts receivable was a cash source of $63.2 million in 2008 compared to a cash usage of $106.7 million in 2007. The change in accounts receivable is driven by the lower average accounts receivable balance in 2008 as compared to 2007 related to the pass through of significantly higher raw milk and other commodity costs in 2007. Accrued income taxes provided a source of cash of $45.0 million in 2008 compared to a use of cash of $32.0 million in the prior year, related to the relative profitability throughout 2007 of our operating segments. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2008 primarily due to a reduction in spending on acquisitions, offset slightly by an increase in capital expenditures. In 2008, we made approximately $257.0 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions requiring the use of approximately $95.9 million in cash. During 2007, we made approximately $241.4 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions, including the acquisition of Friendship Dairies by our Morningstar platform, requiring the use of approximately $132.2 million in cash, and received net proceeds of $12.2 million from divestitures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2008 primarily due to cash payments of debt of approximately $804.1 million with cash generated from operations and an equity offering completed in March 2008. We issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The weighted average interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 2.84% at December 31, 2008. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. 35 Table of Contents The term loan A is payable in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of: $56.25 million in each of the first eight installments, beginning on June 30, 2009 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments, beginning on June 30, 2011 and ending on April 2, 2012. The term loan B amortizes 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The senior secured revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion senior secured revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the senior secured revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our Leverage Ratio is below 5.00 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance. As of December 31, 2008, our Leverage Ratio was 4.92 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio as of December 31, 2008 is 5.75 times and will decline to 5.00 times as of December 31, 2009. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. At December 31, 2008, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.27 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.84 billion at December 31, 2007), all of which were term loan borrowings. The decrease of $568.3 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to the paydown of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility as a result of the issuance and sale of 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering. At December 31, 2008, there were $176.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 18, 2009, $160.0 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. 36 Table of Contents In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million receivables backed facility subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. As of December 31, 2008, the receivables backed facility had $600.0 million available, of which $460.0 million was drawn. The weighted average interest rate on this facility at December 31, 2008 was 2.72%. At February 18, 2009, $200.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2008 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes, $273 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes, and $8.5 million of capital lease and other obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we repurchased in the open market, at a combined discount below par value, $77.0 million of Legacy Deans senior notes that mature May 15, 2009. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our indebtedness. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2008. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase & Lease Obligations(1) Payments Due by Period Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,268.5 $ 186.8 $ 243.0 $ 861.7 $ 280.5 $ 18.0 $ 1,678.5 Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 273.0 123.0 150.0 Receivables backed facility 460.0 460.0 Capital lease obligations and other 8.5 6.6 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Purchase obligations(3) 867.5 539.1 166.4 48.0 16.9 17.1 80.0 Operating leases 413.7 113.1 94.8 74.5 55.9 41.6 33.8 Interest payments(4) 997.5 217.4 194.3 174.5 135.0 131.1 145.2 Total $ 6,788.7 $ 1,186.0 $ 1,159.0 $ 1,159.1 $ 488.7 $ 208.1 $ 2,587.8 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $41.7 million accrued under FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined benefit retirement and other post employment benefit plans. See note 13 for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on interest rate swaps, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2008. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. 37 Table of Contents Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2008, we recorded non cash pension expense of $4.4 million, of which $2.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $5.3 million in 2007, of which $4.9 million was attributable to periodic expense and $437,000 was attributable to settlements. These amounts were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. In excess of 80% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.40% at December 31, 2007 to 6.32% at December 31, 2008, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2009. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. The Investment Committee previously adopted a long term investment policy for the master trust that targets investments in equity securities between 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income at 25% to 35%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Investment Committee retained an independent advisor to perform an asset liability management study and develop projections of funding and expense requirements of various alternatives. The Investment Committee anticipates completing this project in early 2009 with a likely outcome of an increased weighting toward fixed income investments. In light of the work in process, the Investment Committee elected to defer rebalancing of the master trust in the fourth quarter of 2008. At December 31, 2008, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 59%; fixed income securities 40%; and cash and cash equivalents 1%. Consistent with the Investment Committees likely increased weighting toward fixed income investments, the Investment Committee decided to decrease the expected long term rate of return on plan assets from 8.00% at December 31, 2007 to 7.70% at December 31, 2008. The reduction of the expected long term rate of return on plan assets will increase the net periodic benefit cost in future periods. See Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is our primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not breached or terminated any of our milk supply agreements with DFA. 38 Table of Contents We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2009, we intend to invest a total of approximately $300 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $258 million to $266 million based on current debt levels under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $10 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $315.5 million. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted Leverage Ratio of 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2008, this Leverage Ratio was 4.92 times. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 5.00 times and 4.50 times as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. This reduced Leverage Ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2008, $140 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $1.32 billion also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Of this amount, approximately $749 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 18, 2009, approximately $1.51 billion was available under the receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform is conventional raw milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk, and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price, and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs, as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country, and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). 39 Table of Contents In general, DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform change the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. In January and February 2009, the Class I mover declined significantly from the average for the fourth quarter of 2008. We currently expect the average Class I mover to be at the low end of the historical range for 2009, with a generally increasing trend through most of the year. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 80% of our organic raw milk from a network of over 400 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. In 2007, the industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. The retail price increases on private label products lagged that of branded products, creating pricing pressures and causing retail price gaps to expand. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a noticeable slowing of growth in the organic milk category. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become and will continue to be increasingly price sensitive to organic milk. As a result, we believe we will experience a continued slowdown in 2009 of our organic milk growth rate. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category and remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we will be augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non GMO soybeans. We expect that the launch of these new products will shift a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. In 2009, we do not believe our overall costs for soybeans will differ materially from 2008 and we have already secured the majority of our anticipated needs for soybeans for 2009. 40 Table of Contents Fuel and Resin costs DSD Dairy purchases approximately four million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. WhiteWave Morningstar primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. Another significant raw material used by DSD Dairy is resin, which is a petroleum based product used to make plastic bottles. We purchase approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The price of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. Energy and resin inflation escalated in 2007 and peaked in mid 2008 before significantly declining during the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe the prices of both resin and diesel fuel will continue to fluctuate throughout 2009, but be below the 2008 levels. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in DSD Dairy, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to pricing are becoming more widespread in our business. We expect these trends to continue and intensify. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not have contracts with many of our customers, including our largest customers, and to the extent such contracts do exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. In many cases the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles with no need for the application of our judgment. In certain circumstances, however, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates, and the disclosure in this section of this report regarding them, with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We have identified the policies described below as our critical accounting policies. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies. Accounts Receivable We provide credit terms to customers generally ranging up to 30 days, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. As these factors change, our estimates change and we could accrue different amounts for doubtful accounts in different accounting periods. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $17.5 million, or 2.0% of the accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2008. The allowance for doubtful accounts, expressed as a percent of accounts receivable, was 2.2% at December 31, 2007. In 2008, we recorded $2.3 million in bad debt expense. Each 0.10% change in the ratio of allowance for doubtful accounts to accounts receivable would impact bad debt expense by $872,000. Property, Plant and Equipment Our property, plant and equipment totaled $1.82 billion as of December 31, 2008. Such assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.65 billion as of December 31, 2008 resulting primarily from acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated 41 Table of Contents to identifiable assets and liabilities, including trademarks and customer related intangible assets, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. Goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortized. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Currently, our reporting units are our three platforms, DSD Dairy, WhiteWave and Morningstar. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that the assumptions used in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in materially different calculations of fair values. We did not recognize any impairment charges related to goodwill during 2008, 2007 or 2006. Based on our analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, the sum of the fair values of our reporting units was in excess of the Companys market capitalization. We believe that the difference between the fair value and market capitalization is reasonable (in the context of assessing whether any asset impairment exists) when market based control premiums are taken into account and in light of the volatility in the equity markets in the latter part of 2008. In 2008, we recognized an impairment charge of $2.3 million related to three perpetual trademarks for regional brands in DSD Dairy. The write downs were the result of lower annualized sales volumes from certain facilities partly related to movement of production between regional brands. During 2007 and 2006, we recognized immaterial impairment charges related to certain trademarks as a result of the decision to close facilities and shift customers from one regional brand to another. Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. The Investment Committee previously adopted a long term investment policy for the master trust that targets investments in equity securities between 65% to 75% of the portfolio and fixed income securities at 25% to 35%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Investment Committee retained an independent advisor to perform an asset liability management study and develop projections of funding and expense requirements of various alternatives. The Investment Committee anticipates completing this project in early 2009 42 Table of Contents with a likely outcome of an increased weighting toward fixed income securities. In light of the work in process, the Investment Committee elected to defer rebalancing of the master trust in the fourth quarter of 2008. At December 31, 2008, our master trust was invested as follows: equity securities and limited partnerships 59%; fixed income securities 40%; and cash and cash equivalents 1%. Consistent with the Investment Committees likely increased weighting toward fixed income investments, the Investment Committee decided to decrease the expected long term rate of return on plan assets from 8.00% at December 31, 2007 to 7.70% at December 31, 2008. The reduction of the expected long term rate of return on plan assets will increase the net periodic benefit cost in future periods. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.40% at December 31, 2007, to 6.32% at December 31, 2008, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2009. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $462,000 and $657,000, respectively. In addition, a 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate annual post retirement medical expense by $183,000. Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $197.5 million and $180.4 million, respectively, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets, including the benefit of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are evaluated based on the guidelines for realization and are reduced by a valuation allowance if deemed necessary. Future business results may affect deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets. Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect our recorded deferred income taxes and our tax rate in the future. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our net deferred income tax liability was $341.4 million and $353.4 million, respectively. A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our tax rate may increase or decrease in any period, which could have an impact on our earnings. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $41.7 million and $46.1 million, respectively. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued staff position No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active (FSP FAS 157 3) in October 2008. FSP FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (which we adopted effective January 1, 2008), in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. FSP FAS 43 Table of Contents 157 3 was effective for us on September 30, 2008 for all financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in our Consolidated Financial Statement on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of this provision did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value and non financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually). SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a basis for considering assumptions, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model derived valuations, in which all significant inputs are observable in active market. Level 3 Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions. In addition, SFAS No. 157 requires disclosures about the use of fair value to measure assets and liabilities to enable the assessment of inputs used to develop fair value measures, and for unobservable inputs, to determine the effects of the measurements on earnings. We have not yet adopted SFAS No. 157 for non financial assets and liabilities, in accordance with FSP FAS 157 2. FSP FAS 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 to January 1, 2009, for all non financial assets and non financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. SFAS No. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations, in December 2007. SFAS No. 141(R) contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities, including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition such as contingencies and research and development. In addition, acquisition related costs must be expensed as incurred. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we wrote off the remaining immaterial amount of deferred costs for strategic transactions that were not consummated as of December 31, 2008. The provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. The FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, in December 2007. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. 44 Table of Contents The FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosure About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, in March 2008. SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This standard became effective for us on January 1, 2009. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency and interest rates, including swap agreements. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings that arises from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility at the interest rates noted below until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility rising above the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. Credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, recently a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis and in some cases have been unable to fulfill their debt and other obligations. If any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates, and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Butterfat DSD Dairy and our Morningstar platform utilize a significant amount of butterfat to produce Class II products. This butterfat is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Butterfat acquired in raw milk is priced based on the Class II butterfat price in federal orders, which is announced near the end of the applicable month. The Class II butterfat price can generally be tied to the pricing of AA butter traded on the CME. The cost of butterfat acquired in bulk cream is typically based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the CME. From time to time, we purchase butter futures and butter inventory in an effort to better manage our butterfat cost in Class II products. Futures contracts are marked to market in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and physical inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We are exposed to market risk under this risk management strategy if the cost of butter falls below the cost that we have agreed to pay in a futures contract or that we actually paid for the physical inventory and we are unable to pass on the difference to our customers. As of December 31, 2008, we had no material physical or financial positions. Other We currently do not have material exposure to foreign currency risk as we do not have significant amounts of operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 45 Table of Contents 
 
