Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs, as well as Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstar consists of three aggregated operations including WhiteWave, Morningstar and Alpro, as well as a joint venture entered into in 2008 between WhiteWave and Hero Group (Hero). These operations have a higher concentration of branded products and rely more extensively on warehouse distribution. In 2008, we aligned these operations under a single leadership team to better leverage investments in people, tools and processes in various areas including marketing, supply chain, distribution, information technology and research and development. 3 Table of Contents Our WhiteWave operation (WhiteWave) manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND O LAKES creamer and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. With the recent acquisition of Alpro, WhiteWave Morningstar now offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe, marketing its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. Our Morningstar operation (Morningstar) is one of the leading U.S. manufacturers of private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day&reg;. WhiteWave Morningstars net sales totaled $2.7 billion in 2009, or approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products through a combination of internal and external sales forces. WhiteWave Morningstars largest customer is Wal Mart, which includes its subsidiaries such as Sams Club, accounting for approximately 14% of WhiteWave Morningstars net sales in 2009. The following charts graphically depict WhiteWave Morningstars 2009 net sales by the mix of our branded versus private label products and customer: * Represents less than 1% of our total brand mix. (1) Includes Horizon Organic and The Organic Cow organic dairy products. (2) Includes cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese, as well as organic and soy products. (3) Includes both Alpro and Provamel brands in Europe since July 2, 2009. WhiteWave Morningstar currently operates 19 domestic and 5 international manufacturing facilities. For more information about facilities in WhiteWave Morningstar, see Item 2. Properties. The remaining products are manufactured by third party manufacturers under processing agreements. The majority of WhiteWave Morningstars products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. The primary raw materials used in our soy based products include both organic soybeans and non genetically modified (non GMO) soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 85% of our organic raw milk from a network of over 500 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm 4 Table of Contents that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The primary raw material used in our private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products, as well as LAND O LAKES and other non organic dairy products, is conventional raw milk. WhiteWave Morningstar also uses significant quantities of butterfat which is acquired through the purchase of raw milk and bulk cream. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). Other raw materials used in WhiteWave Morningstars products include palm oil, flavorings and organic sugar. Certain of these raw materials are purchased under long term contracts in order to better manage the supply and costs of our inputs. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. For more information on factors that can impact the results of WhiteWave Morningstar, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs as well as Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Current Business Strategy Our strategy historically has been centered on growth through acquisitions and aligning our operating activities with a consolidating customer base. Since 1994, we have completed over 40 acquisitions, increasing our net sales from $150 million to more than $11 billion. We believe our portfolio of manufacturing and distribution assets enables us to offer regional and national branded and private label products across a variety of product categories, ranging from short shelf life (less than 20 days) to extended shelf life (45 to 60 days) to shelf stable products (6 to 12 months), to its customers in a cost effective manner. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States and WhiteWave Morningstars branded and private label products maintain significant market share positions in the soy based beverage, organic dairy, creamer, cultured products and extended shelf life product categories. With the acquisition of Alpro, we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the global demand for soy based products. Currently, the our strategy is to build on our scale advantaged position in the dairy industry by extending our low cost position, driving sales and profit growth in our core businesses and investing for growth in the future. Our strategy encompasses the following: Continuing to reduce costs across the business and extend our low cost position in the marketplace, Working to expand our core manufacturing and distribution processes and leveraging and building upon the strong net sales growth of our branded portfolio to drive revenue and operating profit growth and Continuing to build stronger capabilities to drive sustainable long term growth. Within this strategy, we have a strong commitment to sustainable business practices that are focused on growing our business while promoting corporate social responsibility in the communities we serve. We have taken steps to reduce our green house gas emissions, water consumption and waste sent to landfills. We are also focused on engaging and developing talented individuals that will not only help grow our business but are also committed to our social efforts and supporting our communities. 5 Table of Contents We have analyzed and evaluated the foreseeable risks and opportunities to the business of potential legislative, regulatory and physical changes associated with climate change. While we consider our business to be subject to both risks and opportunities, we do not believe that the foreseeable risks and opportunities are material. We currently are included on the Carbon Disclosure Projects S&P 500 Leadership Index, and WhiteWave participates in the EPAs Climate Leaders Program. We have submitted our 2007 & 2008 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data to the California Climate Action Registry for our California operations and we will submit similar 2009 emissions data for all of our facilities in the U.S. to The Climate Registry in 2010. We will be subject to mandatory emission reporting laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate in the ordinary course of our business and are prepared to comply with those obligations. Fresh Dairy Direct The Fresh Dairy Direct fluid and ice cream operation is focused on high velocity products where delivering low cost and high levels of customer service are critical to success. While a portion of our ice cream products are distributed through customer warehouse delivery channels, the ice cream supply chain remains highly integrated within our DSD system. The Fresh Dairy Direct strategy is to achieve cost leadership and gain share in the core dairy business. The strategy encompasses the following: Driving to be the lowest cost, most effective manufacturer in every market in which we compete, Building our selling and delivery capability and Strengthening our capabilities through standardization and simplification of our underlying systems and processes. WhiteWave Morningstar The WhiteWave Morningstar strategy is to lead in our categories and drive our customers businesses by providing nutritious, wholesome high quality retail and food service private label, extended shelf life and cultured products and be a top tier consumer packaged goods company, consistently delivering superior results. The strategy encompasses the following: Growing our national and private label brands through innovation and superior marketing, Accelerating growth in new businesses by segmenting consumers and innovating in value added products, Achieving cost excellence by leveraging our assets, focusing our portfolio and optimizing our supply chain, Investing in people, processes and systems to drive organizational capacity and capabilities and Incorporating sustainability initiatives at all levels to reduce green house gas emissions, water and waste. In July 2009, we completed the acquisition of the Alpro division of Vandemoortele, N.V. (Alpro), a privately held food company based in Belgium. Alpro manufactures and sells branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe. The acquisition of Alpro will provide opportunities to leverage the collective strengths of our combined business across a global soy beverages and related products category. Seasonality Our business, particularly Fresh Dairy Direct, is affected by seasonal changes in the demand for dairy products. The demand for dairy is typically lower in the second and third quarters of the year primarily due to the reduction in dairy consumption associated with our school business; therefore, these quarters have historically generated lower Fresh Dairy Direct volumes than the first and fourth quarters. Our WhiteWave Morningstar sales are typically higher in the fourth quarter associated with increased dairy consumption during seasonal holidays. Because certain of our operating expenses are fixed, fluctuations in volumes and revenue from quarter to quarter may have a material effect on operating income for the respective quarters. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We are continually developing new technology and enhancing existing proprietary technology related to our dairy operations. As of December 31, 2009, 19 United States patents have been issued to us and 21 United States patent applications are pending. We primarily rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. Despite these protections, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy, obtain or use certain portions of our proprietary technology or trademarks. Research and Development With our state of the art research and development (R&D) facility, we are building our capabilities through a team of top consumer packaged goods talent across many disciplines such as product development, dairy and soy science, culinary and sensory science, nutrition, packaging design and engineering, and process engineering. Our R&D activities primarily consist of generating and testing new product concepts, new flavors and packaging for our fluid milk, soy and ice cream products. Our total R&D expense was $25.5 million, $14.0 million and $7.5 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Developments Since January 1, 2009 Current Dairy Environment Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. The lower conventional milk prices in 2009 were in sharp contrast to the historically high conventional milk prices we experienced throughout 2007 and 2008. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex, we expect the average Class I mover will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with potential modest inflation in the back half of the year and we expect Class II butterfat prices to increase throughout 2010. Organic Milk Environment During 2009, we have continued experiencing a slowing of growth in the organic milk category from 2008, declining to relatively flat year over year levels by the end of 2009. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to organic milk and, as a result, we may experience a continued softening in sales in this category. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category, including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term, and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. With the more stabilized demand for organic milk we are anticipating modestly lower costs in 2010. Appointment of Joe Scalzo as Dean Foods Chief Operating Officer (COO) In October 2009, we announced the promotion of Joe Scalzo to COO, effective November 1, 2009. In his new role, Mr. Scalzo will oversee all of our operations, including Fresh Dairy Direct, WhiteWave, Morningstar, Alpro and the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture, as well as key strategic functions including worldwide supply chain, R&D and innovation. Public Offering of Equity Securities In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. Acquisitions On July 2, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the Alpro division of Vandemoortele, N.V. (Alpro), a privately held food company based in Belgium, for an aggregate purchase price of 314.6 million ($440.3 7 Table of Contents million), after working capital adjustments, excluding transaction costs which were expensed as incurred. Alpro manufactures and sells branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe. The acquisition of Alpro will provide opportunities to leverage the collective strengths of our combined businesses across a global soy beverages and related products category. During 2009, we completed four other acquisitions of businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $143.5 million. All of these acquisitions were funded with borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. We recorded approximately $31.3 million in acquisition related expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009, in connection with these acquisitions, including expenses related to due diligence, investment advisors and regulatory matters, as well as other non material transactional activities. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, to introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, serves as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. During the first quarter of 2009, the joint venture began to manufacture and distribute its primary product, Fruit2Day&reg;, in limited test markets in the United States. During the second quarter of 2009, the product was nationally launched in grocery and club store channels. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities We closed four facilities within Fresh Dairy Direct during 2009. We recorded facility closing and reorganization costs of $30.2 million including approximately $16.3 million in impairment charges and $13.9 million in employee termination and other costs associated with these and previously announced closures during the year ended December 31, 2009. Strategic Initiatives Currently, our strategy is to build on our scale advantaged position in the dairy industry with an initial and key strategic focus on cost reduction across the organization, but particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct. In 2009, we began a three to five year company wide cost savings initiative targeting company wide cost reductions of approximately $300 million over this timeframe. Our cost savings initiative efforts are primarily focused on three areas: Procurement, where we are leveraging our scale to drive our costs lower, Conversion, where continuous improvement and network optimization are coupled to reduce the cost of production in and across our facilities and Distribution, where we are leveraging technology and process best practices to drive increased productivity across our DSD network. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had the following employees: No. ofEmployees % ofTotal Fresh Dairy Direct 21,918 81 % WhiteWave Morningstar 4,414 16 Corporate 825 3 Total 27,157 100 % 8 Table of Contents Approximately 36% of Fresh Dairy Directs and 41% of WhiteWave Morningstars employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with our employees and these organizations is satisfactory. Government Regulation Food Related Regulations As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations, specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorizes regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe our facilities and manufacturing practices are in material compliance with all government regulations applicable to our business. Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations applicable to our business. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Our plants use a number of chemicals that are considered to be extremely hazardous substances pursuant to applicable environmental laws due to their toxicity, including ammonia which is used extensively in our operations as a refrigerant. Such chemicals must be handled in accordance with such environmental laws. Also, on occasion, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels allowed under local regulations. As a result, certain of our facilities are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct wastewater pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We maintain above ground and under ground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. We periodically inspect these tanks to determine whether they are in compliance with applicable regulations and, as a result of such inspections are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to ensure that these tanks remain in compliance. In addition, upon removal of the tanks, we are sometimes required to make expenditures to restore the site in accordance with applicable environmental laws. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We believe that we are in material compliance with the environmental regulations applicable to our business. We do not expect the cost of our continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, cash flows or competitive position in the foreseeable future. In addition, any asset retirement obligations are not material. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk primarily contains raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat and other milk components, and we pay our suppliers for the raw milk based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices vary depending on the processors geographic location or sales area and the type of product manufactured. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class I products such as fluid milk) and Class II raw milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class II products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government the immediately preceding month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also may pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Organic Regulations Our organic products are required to meet the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. These regulations require strict methods of production for organic food products and limit the ability of food processors to use non organic or synthetic materials in the production of organic foods or in the raising of organic livestock. We believe that we are in material compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. 10 Table of Contents Brief History We commenced operations in 1988 through a predecessor entity. Our original operations consisted solely of a packaged ice business. Since then the following significant activity has occurred: December 1993 Acquired Suiza Dairy Corporation, a regional dairy processor located in Puerto Rico. We then began acquiring other local and regional U.S. dairy processors, growing our dairy business rapidly primarily through acquisitions. April 1996 Completed our initial public offering under our former name Suiza Foods Corporation and began trading on NASDAQ National Market. March 1997 Began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. August 1997 Acquired Franklin Plastics, Inc., a company engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling plastic containers. After the acquisition, we began acquiring other companies in the plastic packaging industry. November 1997 Acquired Morningstar Foods Inc., whose business was a predecessor to our WhiteWave segment. This was our first acquisition of a company with national brands. April 1998 Sold our packaged ice operations. May 1998 Acquired Continental Can Company, making us one of the largest plastic packaging companies in the United States. July 1999 Sold all of our U.S. plastic packaging operations to Consolidated Container Company in exchange for cash and a minority interest in the purchaser. January 2000 Acquired Southern Foods Group, L.P., the third largest dairy processor in the United States, making us the largest dairy processor in the country. February 2000 Acquired Leche Celta, one of the largest dairy processors in Spain. March and May 2000 Sold our European packaging operations. December 2001 Acquired the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean) and changed our name from Suiza Foods Corporation to Dean Foods Company. Legacy Dean changed its name to Dean Holding Company. May 2002 Acquired the portion of WhiteWave, Inc. that we did not already own. January 2004 Acquired the portion of Horizon Organic that we did not already own. January 2005 Consolidated our nationally branded business, including WhiteWave, Horizon Organic and Dean National Brand Group into a single operating unit called WhiteWave. June 2005 Spun off our Specialty Foods Group segment to our shareholders. September 2006 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Spain. January 2007 Sold our Leche Celta operations in Portugal. March 2007 Acquired Friendship Dairies, one of the largest dairy products manufacturers, marketers and distributors in the northeastern United States. April 2007 Paid a special cash dividend of $15 per share to our shareholders. January 2008 Entered into and formed a strategic joint venture with Hero Group. July 2009 Acquired Alpro, a leading provider of soy based food and beverage products in Europe, providing us with the opportunity to leverage the collective strengths of our combined businesses across a global soy beverages and related products category. 11 Table of Contents Minority Holdings and Other Interests Consolidated Container Company We own an approximately 25% non controlling interest, on a fully diluted basis, in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners, an unaffiliated entity, controls CCC through a majority ownership interest. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control two of the eight seats on CCCs Management Committee. We also have entered into various supply agreements with CCC pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. We spent $268.2 million and $330.3 million on products purchased from CCC for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our relationship with CCC. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, to introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, serves as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. During the first quarter of 2009, the joint venture began to manufacture and distribute its primary product, Fruit2Day&reg;, in limited test markets in the United States. During the second quarter of 2009, the product was nationally launched in grocery and club store channels. Beginning January 1, 2009, in conjunction with entering into several new agreements between WhiteWave and the joint venture, we concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of the joint venture and the financial position and the results of operations for the joint venture should be consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the joint venture has been consolidated as of January 1, 2009. The resulting non controlling interests share in the equity of the joint venture is presented as a separate component of stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statement of stockholders equity and the net loss attributable to the non controlling interest is presented in the consolidated statements of income. During 2009, our joint venture partner made cash and non cash contributions of $12.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively, to the joint venture. During 2009, we made cash contributions of $10.5 million and continued non cash contributions in the form of the capital lease for the manufacturing facility constructed at one of our existing WhiteWave plants. From the inception of the venture through December 31, 2009, we and our joint venture partner have each invested $30.3 million in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 12 Table of Contents We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethics is applicable to all of our employees and directors, with the exception of our Alpro employees, who are subject to a comparable code of ethics. Our Code of Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations Item 1A. Risk Factors Competitive Risks Industry Consolidation Has Strengthened the Competitive Position of Our Retail Customers, Which Has Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and may re dedicate key shelf space currently occupied by our products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases are becoming more widespread in our business. During 2009, retailers began lowering their prices on milk to drive value for the end consumer and increase traffic flow, resulting in lower margins for the retailers. Increasingly, this margin compression is being absorbed by dairy processors. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose these customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a lower cost. Additionally, if we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately, our profitability could be adversely affected by the decrease in margin. Increased Competition With Our Branded Products and Economic Conditions Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Profit Margin. Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic food and beverage products have leading shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products have gained in popularity with consumers, our products in these categories have attracted competitors, including private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. In addition, we may incur increased marketing costs for our branded products, which can negatively impact our profitability. In periods of economic decline, consumers tend to purchase lower priced products, including private label products and such as conventional milk, which could 13 Table of Contents reduce sales of our organic milk. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin for our branded products. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. For example, Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestl&eacute; CoffeeMate&reg;. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestl&eacute;, which has substantially more resources than we do, could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight business. The Loss of Any of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sams Club, accounted for approximately 19.1% of consolidated net sales during 2009. During 2009, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 31.0% of our consolidated net sales. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. We are Subject to Competitive Bidding Situations, the Outcome of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers which could negatively impact our sales and profits. Commodity Risks Availability of and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Our business is heavily dependent on raw materials such as conventional and organic raw milk, diesel fuel, resin and soybeans and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, Fresh Dairy Direct is a large consumer of diesel fuel and WhiteWave Morningstar is affected by the costs of petroleum based products through the use of common carriers and packaging. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on market conditions, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather, including the heightened impact of weather events related to climate change, also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. Sometimes supplies of raw materials, such as resin, have been insufficient to meet demand. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials, particularly diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, can significantly adversely affect our performance as upward price changes often lag changes in costs we charge our customers. In some cases the price increases of these non dairy inputs may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers due to contractual and other limitations. In periods of rapid movements in dairy commodities, our ability to pass through costs is impaired due to the timing of passing through the price increases. These lags and limitations may decrease our profit margins. In addition, raw material cost fluctuations from year to year can cause our revenues to increase or decrease significantly compared to prior periods. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Industry regulation, and the costs of organic farming compared to prices paid for conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. An oversupply of organic raw milk can cause significant discounting in the sale of organic packaged milk, which increases competitive pressure on our branded products and could cause our profitability to suffer. An undersupply or higher input costs can increase the costs of organic raw milk, which can cause retail price gaps between private label and branded products to expand, potentially decreasing our volumes and adversely affecting our results. The impact of retail price gaps may be compounded by the current economic environment as consumers become increasingly focused on product pricing. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase conventional milk instead of organic milk due to differences in cost, which could further decrease our volumes and results. 14 Table of Contents Capital Markets and General Economic Risks We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.6 billion under our senior secured credit facility, of which $3.1 billion were in term loan borrowings with an additional $515.2 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion senior secured revolving line of credit. In addition, we had $642.0 million of face value of senior unsecured notes outstanding and nothing outstanding under our receivables backed facility at December 31, 2009. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. In addition, in the current economic climate, investors are apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Also, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with the financial covenants (as defined in our credit agreement), or any other non financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our Leverage Ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is dependent on our ability to renew our Receivables backed facility annually and refinance our senior secured credit facility, of which a portion matures in 2012 and the remainder in 2014. The timing, approach, and terms of any such refinancing would depend upon market conditions and managements judgment, among other factors. There are sizeable amounts of other outstanding credit facilities in the market that are currently scheduled to mature during the same timeframe as our senior secured credit facility. This future refinancing demand could potentially reduce liquidity and credit availability in the capital markets and impact our ability to refinance our senior credit facility. While certain conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies may be showing signs of improvement, there continues to be volatility in the capital markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability and continued counterparty risk. Given the current economic and capital market environment, we expect that the interest rates on our debt will increase as a result of any such refinancing. In addition, the expenses associated with any such refinancing could be material. Recent Adverse Market Events Have Caused Costs of Providing Employee Benefits to Escalate, Which May Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multi employer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan 15 Table of Contents assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multi employer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Although our funded status as of December 31, 2009 increased by approximately $24.1 million from the prior year end, it is still approximately $51.1 million lower than our funded status at December 31, 2007. This decline will continue to result in higher future funding requirements, as well as increased plan costs. In addition to the impact from our defined benefit retirement plan, we expect the market events in 2008 to continue to result in higher future funding requirements related to multi employer plans in which we participate. The Continued Recessionary Economy May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. The continued recessionary economy may have an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. Higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, or other unfavorable economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which could adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurances that government responses to the economic downturn will restore consumer confidence. Strategic Growth Plan Risks We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Strategic Growth Plan. We are implementing a strategic growth plan, which includes a number of transformational initiatives, that we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. Our success depends in part on our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. We continue to implement profit enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and related functions. These initiatives are focused on cost saving opportunities in procurement, distribution, conversion and network optimization. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Product, Supply Chain and Systems Risks We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes, dietary preferences and purchasing habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment, and we may fail to realize anticipated returns on such investments due to lack of consumer acceptance of such products. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness 16 Table of Contents beverages. Although we have increased our investment in innovation in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global companies with greater resources which compete with us in the health and wellness space. In 2009, we augmented our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non GMO soybeans. Our transition to non GMO soybeans from organic soybeans may impact consumer acceptance of our products. In addition, as consumers become increasingly aware of the environmental and social impacts of the products they purchase their preferences and purchasing decisions may change. If our products fail to meet changing consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our product strategy may not succeed. We May Experience Liabilities or Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Product Issues, Such as Product Recalls. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories such as fluid milk that have strong health and wellness credentials. Disruption of Our Supply Chain or Transportation Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD Delivery system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Our Business Operations Could be Disrupted if Our Information Technology Systems Fail to Perform Adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting, and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisition Risks The Failure to Successfully Integrate Acquisitions into Our Existing Operations Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. We have made several acquisitions in recent years including, most recently, our acquisition of the Alpro division of Vandemoortele N.V., and we regularly review opportunities for strategic growth through future acquisitions. Potential risks associated with these acquisitions include the diversion of managements attention 17 Table of Contents from other business concerns, the inability to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all, the inherent risks in entering geographic locations, markets or lines of business in which we have limited prior experience, the inability to integrate the new operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies successfully with our existing businesses, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, and the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, and potential disputes with the sellers. In addition, acquisitions outside the United States may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and compliance with foreign rules and regulations. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. Legal and Regulatory Risks The Dairy Industry in Which We Operate Has Been Subject to Increased Government Scrutiny Which Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are subject to antitrust and other competition laws in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will impact us. Throughout 2009 and continuing in 2010, the dairy industry has been the subject of increased government scrutiny. Beginning in 2010, the current administration has initiated a review of existing dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. This review process may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate and that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Pending Antitrust Lawsuits May have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are the subject of several antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in litigation or regulatory actions against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend and could cause a diversion of managements attention. In addition to increased litigation costs, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and or customer preference for our products. In addition, acquisition activities are regulated by these antitrust and competition laws and such scrutiny could impact our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. Litigation or Legal Proceedings Could Expose Us to Significant Liabilities and Have a Negative Impact on Our Reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and /or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor Disputes Could Adversely Affect Us. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 36% of Fresh Dairy Directs and 41% of WhiteWave Morningstars employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims. In addition, proposed legislation, known as The Employee Free Choice Act, could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. 18 Table of Contents Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, TX 75201. In June, 2009, we announced our intent to relocate our corporate headquarters to a leased facility located in Dallas, Texas. The new facility is in close proximity to our existing headquarters. The relocation of personnel began in the first quarter of 2010 and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2010. In addition, we operate more than 100 manufacturing facilities. Management believes that Dean Foods facilities are well maintained and are generally suitable and of sufficient capacity to support our current business operations and that the loss of any single facility would not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial results. The following tables set forth, by business segment, our principal manufacturing facilities. Fresh Dairy Direct Fresh Dairy Direct currently conducts its manufacturing operations within the following 82 facilities, most of which are owned: Birmingham, Alabama (2) Buena Park, California (2) City of Industry, California (2) Hayward, California Riverside, California Delta, Colorado Denver, Colorado Englewood, Colorado Greeley, Colorado Miami, Florida Orange City, Florida Orlando, Florida Baxley, Georgia Braselton, Georgia Hilo, Hawaii Honolulu, Hawaii Boise, Idaho Belvidere, Illinois Harvard, Illinois Huntley, Illinois OFallon, Illinois Decatur, Indiana Huntington, Indiana Rochester, Indiana LeMars, Iowa Louisville, Kentucky Newport, Kentucky New Orleans, Louisiana Shreveport, Louisiana Bangor, Maine Franklin, Massachusetts Lynn, Massachusetts Mendon, Massachusetts Evart, Michigan Grand Rapids, Michigan Livonia, Michigan Marquette, Michigan Thief River Falls, Minnesota Woodbury, Minnesota Billings, Montana Great Falls, Montana Las Vegas, Nevada Reno, Nevada Burlington, New Jersey Albuquerque, New Mexico Rensselaer, New York High Point, North Carolina Winston Salem, North Carolina Bismarck, North Dakota Tulsa, Oklahoma Marietta, Ohio Springfield, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Erie, Pennsylvania Landsdale, Pennsylvania Lebanon, Pennsylvania Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Florence, South Carolina Spartanburg, South Carolina Sioux Falls, South Dakota Athens, Tennessee Nashville, Tennessee (2) Dallas, Texas (2) El Paso, Texas Houston, Texas Lubbock, Texas McKinney, Texas San Antonio, Texas Waco, Texas Orem, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Richmond, Virginia Springfield, Virginia DePere, Wisconsin Sheboygan, Wisconsin Waukesha, Wisconsin Each of Fresh Dairy Directs manufacturing facilities also serves as a distribution facility. In addition, Fresh Dairy Direct has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. Fresh Dairy Directs headquarters are located in Dallas, Texas in leased premises. 20 Table of Contents WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstar currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following 24 facilities, most of which are owned: Decatur, Alabama City of Industry, California Fullerton, California Gustine, California Tulare, California Newington, Connecticut Jacksonville, Florida Rockford, Illinois Murray, Kentucky Frederick, Maryland White Bear Lake, Minnesota Bridgeton, New Jersey Delhi, New York Friendship, New York Cedar City, Utah Sulphur Springs, Texas (2) Mt. Crawford, Virginia Richland Center, Wisconsin Wevelgem, Belgium Issenheim, France Landgraaf, Netherlands Aberystwyth, United Kingdom Kettering, United Kingdom WhiteWave also owns two organic dairy farms located in Paul, Idaho and Kennedyville, Maryland and leases an organic dairy farm in Portales, New Mexico. WhiteWaves headquarters and our research and development facility are located in leased premises in Broomfield, Colorado. Morningstars headquarters are located in leased premises in Dallas, Texas. Alpros headquarters are located in leased premises in Gent, Belgium. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not party to, nor are our properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, other than as set forth below. We were named, among several defendants, in two purported class action antitrust complaints filed on July 5, 2007. The complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, Columbia Division and allege generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price Southeastern dairy farmers are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities (dairy farmer actions). A third purported class action antitrust complaint (retailer action) was filed on August 9, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The complaint in the retailer action was amended on March 28, 2008. The amended complaint alleges generally that we, either acting alone or in conjunction with others in the milk industry, lessened competition in the Southeastern United States for the sale of processed fluid Grade A milk to retail outlets and other customers and that the defendants conduct also artificially inflated retail prices for direct milk purchasers. Four additional purported class action complaints were filed on August 27, 2007, October 3, 2007, November 15, 2007 and February 13, 2008 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The allegations in these complaints are similar to those in the dairy farmer actions. On January 7, 2008, a United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred all of the pending cases to the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. On April 1, 2008, the Eastern District Court ordered the consolidation of the six dairy farmer actions and ordered the retailer action to be administratively consolidated with the coordinated dairy farmer actions. A motion to dismiss the dairy farmer actions was denied on May 20, 2008, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed by the dairy farmer plaintiffs on June 20, 2008. A motion to dismiss the retailer action was denied on July 27, 2009. Motions for class certification were filed in both actions on May 1, 2009, and are currently pending before the Court. A motion for summary judgment in the retailer action was filed on September 18, 2009 and remains pending. We are nearing completion of fact discovery in these matters. We intend to continue to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. On June 29, 2009, another purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division, on behalf of indirect purchasers of processed fluid Grade A milk (indirect purchaser action). The allegations in this complaint are similar to those in the retailer action, but primarily involve state law claims. Because the allegations in this complaint substantially overlap with the allegations in the retailer action, on September 1, 2009, the Court granted the parties joint motion to stay all proceedings in the indirect purchaser action pending the outcome of the summary judgment motion in the retailer action. 21 Table of Contents On October 8, 2009, we were named, among several defendants, in a purported class action antitrust complaint filed in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont. The complaint, which was amended on January 21, 2010, contains allegations similar in nature to that of the dairy farmer actions (noted above), and alleges generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price dairy farmers in the Northeastern United States are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities. A motion to dismiss the amended complaint has recently been filed. A second complaint was filed by a different plaintiff on January 14, 2010 but has not been served. The second complaint is similar to the original complaint. These cases are at a very preliminary stage, and we intend to vigorously defend against these actions. On January 22, 2010, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the States of Wisconsin, Illinois and Michigan (Plaintiff States) filed a civil action in the Eastern District of Wisconsin (DOJ lawsuit) alleging that the Company violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act when it acquired the Consumer Products Division of Foremost Farms USA on April 1, 2009 (the acquisition) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $35 million. The DOJ and the Plaintiff States seek a declaration that the acquisition violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, divestiture by the Company of all assets and interests it acquired as part of the acquisition, an order permanently enjoining the Company from further ownership and operation of the assets that were part of the acquisition, and to compel the Company to provide certain advance notification of future acquisitions involving school milk or fluid milk processing operations. The Company intends to vigorously defend against this action. On April 28, 2009, a stockholder derivative complaint was filed purportedly on behalf of Dean Foods Company (the Company) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville division. The complaint names the Companys then current directors, as well as Richard Fehr, an officer of the Company, and former director Alan Bernon among the defendants. The complaint alleges that the officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Company under Delaware law by approving the 2001 merger between the former Dean Foods Company and Suiza Foods Corporation and allegedly participating in, or failing to prevent, a purported conspiracy to fix the price of Grade A milk. The complaint also names others in the milk industry as defendants for allegedly aiding and abetting the officers and directors breach of their fiduciary duties and names the Company as a nominal defendant. The plaintiffs are seeking, on behalf of the Company, an undisclosed amount of damages and equitable relief. On August 7, 2009, the Company and other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and a motion to transfer the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Both motions are currently pending before the Court. On January 18, 2008, our subsidiary, Kohler Mix Specialties, LLC (Kohler), was named as defendant in a civil complaint filed in the Superior Court, Judicial District of Hartford. The plaintiff in the case is the Commissioner of Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut. The complaint alleges generally that Kohler improperly discharged wastewater into the waters of the State of Connecticut and bypassed certain wastewater treatment equipment in violation of certain Connecticut environmental regulations and Kohlers wastewater discharge permit. The plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties with respect to the claims. On December 14, 2009, Kohler filed its answer to the complaint. This matter is currently in the fact discovery stage. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters set forth above. On October 22, 2009, we received a notice from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA) that it plans to file an administrative complaint for civil penalties against Country Fresh, LLC alleging our failure to meet certain procedural requirements with respect to the risk management program at our former facility in Flint, Michigan. In February 2010, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $92,400 to the EPA pursuant to a Consent Agreement and Final Order in settlement of the matter. Other than the matters set forth above, we are party from time to time to certain claims, litigations, audits and investigations. Potential liabilities associated with the other matters referred to in this paragraph are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders We did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2009 through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DF. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At February 19, 2010, there were 4,412 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2008: First Quarter $ 28.90 $ 19.49 Second Quarter 23.65 18.36 Third Quarter 25.65 17.95 Fourth Quarter 24.42 11.51 2009: First Quarter 21.13 17.83 Second Quarter 20.70 17.61 Third Quarter 21.92 17.60 Fourth Quarter 19.65 15.90 We have not historically declared or paid a regular cash dividend on our common stock. We have no current plans to pay a cash dividend in the future. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior secured credit facility, including terms restricting the payment of dividends. Stock Repurchases Since 1998, our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized the repurchase of our common stock up to an aggregate of $2.3 billion, excluding fees and expense. We made no share repurchases in 2009 or 2008. As of December 31, 2009, $218.7 million was available for repurchases under this program (excluding fees and commissions). Shares, when repurchased, are retired. 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2009 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales $ 11,158,388 $ 12,454,613 $ 11,821,903 $ 10,098,555 $ 10,174,718 Cost of sales 8,042,401 9,509,359 9,084,318 7,358,676 7,591,548 Gross profit(1) 3,115,987 2,945,254 2,737,585 2,739,879 2,583,170 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,826,935 1,817,690 1,721,617 1,648,860 1,581,028 General and administrative 627,132 486,280 419,518 409,225 380,490 Amortization of intangibles 9,637 9,836 6,744 5,983 6,106 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30,162 22,758 34,421 25,116 35,451 Other operating expense(2) 1,688 Total operating costs and expenses 2,493,866 2,336,564 2,183,988 2,089,184 2,003,075 Operating income 622,121 608,690 553,597 650,695 580,095 Other (income) expense: Interest expense(3)(7) 246,494 308,080 333,202 194,547 160,230 Other (income) expense, net (4,196 ) 933 5,926 435 (683 ) Total other expense 242,298 309,013 339,128 194,982 159,547 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 379,823 299,677 214,469 455,713 420,548 Income taxes 152,065 114,837 84,007 175,450 163,898 Income from continuing operations 227,758 184,840 130,462 280,263 256,650 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 89 (1,275 ) 608 (1,978 ) 38,763 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 205 283 (52,871 ) 14,793 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 227,847 183,770 131,353 225,414 310,206 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax(4) (1,552 ) Net income 227,847 183,770 131,353 225,414 308,654 Net loss attributable to non controlling interest 12,461 Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 240,308 $ 183,770 $ 131,353 $ 225,414 $ 308,654 Cash dividend paid per share $ $ $ 15.00 $ $ Basic earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 1.41 $ 1.23 $ 1.01 $ 1.68 $ 2.10 Diluted earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 1.38 $ 1.20 $ 0.96 $ 1.61 $ 2.01 Average common shares: Basic 170,986,886 149,266,519 130,310,811 133,938,777 146,673,322 Diluted 173,858,303 153,395,746 137,291,998 139,762,104 153,438,636 Other data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(5) 2.26 x 1.82 x 1.56 x 2.87 x 3.01 x 24 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 7,843,941 $ 7,040,192 $ 7,033,356 $ 6,770,173 $ 7,050,884 Long term debt(6)(7) 4,228,979 4,489,251 5,272,351 3,355,851 3,386,848 Other long term liabilities 393,575 412,322 320,256 238,682 225,479 Non controlling interest 15,286 Dean Foods Company stockholders equity(7)(8) 1,351,946 558,234 51,267 1,809,399 1,902,213 (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. (2) Results for 2007 include a loss of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our tofu business. (3) Results for 2007 include a charge of $13.5 million to write off financing costs related to the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility. (4) In the fourth quarter of 2005, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. If this guidance had always been in effect, we would have expensed this amount for depreciation in periods prior to January 1, 2005. (5) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (6) Includes the current portion of long term debt. (7) In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering which were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet with the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record as of March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. (8) Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. As a result, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. The balance at December 31, 2006 reflects a $14.8 million reduction related to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The reduction had no impact on net income. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct, previously referred to as DSD Dairy, is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk&reg; soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic&reg; milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow&reg;, International Delight&reg; coffee creamers, LAND O LAKES&reg; creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic&reg; dairy products. With the addition of our recently acquired Alpro business in Europe, WhiteWave Morningstar now offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe, marketing its products under the Alpro&reg; and Provamel&reg; brands. Additionally, WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. Our Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments, Fresh Dairy Direct and WhiteWave Morningstar. Fresh Dairy Direct Fresh Dairy Direct is our largest segment, with approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales in 2009. Fresh Dairy Direct manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, juices and teas, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of its products, Fresh Dairy Direct delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by Fresh Dairy Directs corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline while total consumption has remained relatively flat due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains slow to flat, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In addition, current economic conditions and historically low raw milk costs have led supermarkets, including vertically integrated supermarkets, and food retailers to utilize competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty. Such activity has significantly reduced the profit margins realized by supermarkets and foods retailers on the sale of such products. Increasingly, this margin compression is being absorbed by dairy processors. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and will continue these efforts for the foreseeable future. Historically, Fresh Dairy Directs volume growth has kept pace with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition, service and quality. In 2009, due in part to acquisitions, we were able to increase our sales volume of fresh fluid milk and our market share in this product category. Fresh Dairy Direct has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases Fresh 26 Table of Contents Dairy Direct pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales in 2009. WhiteWave Morningstar manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. We license the LAND O LAKES name from a third party. With the addition of Alpro, it now offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe, marketing its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. WhiteWave Morningstar also includes private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products primarily through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. The majority of the WhiteWave Morningstar products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. Recent Developments Current Dairy Environment Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. The lower conventional milk prices in 2009 were in sharp contrast to the historically high conventional milk prices we experienced throughout 2007 and 2008. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex we expect the average Class I mover will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with potential modest inflation in the back half of the year and we expect Class II butterfat prices to increase throughout 2010. Organic Milk Environment During 2009, we have continued experiencing a slowing of growth in the organic milk category from 2008, declining to relatively flat year over year levels by the end of 2009. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to organic milk and, as a result, we may experience a continued softening in sales in this category. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category, including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. With the more stabilized demand for organic milk we are anticipating modestly lower costs in 2010. Appointment of Joe Scalzo as Dean Foods Chief Operating Officer (COO) In October 2009, we announced the promotion of Joe Scalzo to COO, effective November 1, 2009. In his new role, Mr. Scalzo will oversee all of our operations, including Fresh Dairy Direct, WhiteWave, Morningstar, Alpro and the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture, as well as key strategic functions including worldwide supply chain, R&D and innovation. 27 Table of Contents Public Offering of Equity Securities In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. Acquisitions On July 2, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the Alpro division of Vandemoortele, N.V. (Alpro), a privately held food company based in Belgium, for an aggregate purchase price of 314.6 million ($440.3 million) after working capital adjustments, excluding transaction costs which were expensed as incurred. Alpro manufactures and sells branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe. The acquisition of Alpro will provide opportunities to leverage the collective strengths of our combined businesses across a global soy beverages and related products category. During 2009, we completed four other acquisitions of businesses and other identifiable intangible assets for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $143.5 million. All of these acquisitions were funded with borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. We recorded approximately $31.3 million in acquisition related expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009, in connection with these acquisitions, including expenses related to due diligence, investment advisors and regulatory matters, as well as other non material transactional activities. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, to introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, serves as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. During the first quarter of 2009, the joint venture began to manufacture and distribute its primary product, Fruit2Day&reg;, in limited test markets in the United States. During the second quarter of 2009, the product was nationally launched in grocery and club store channels. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities We closed four facilities within Fresh Dairy Direct during 2009. We recorded facility closing and reorganization costs of $30.2 million including approximately $16.3 million in impairment charges and $13.9 million in employee termination and other costs associated with these and previously announced closures during the year ended December 31, 2009. Strategic Initiatives Currently, our strategy is to build on our scale advantaged position in the dairy industry with an initial and key strategic focus on cost reduction across the organization, but particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct. In 2009, we began a three to five year company wide cost savings initiative targeting company wide cost reductions of approximately $300 million over this timeframe. Our cost savings initiative efforts are primarily focused on three areas: Procurement, where we are leveraging our scale to drive our costs lower, Conversion, where continuous improvement and network optimization are coupled to reduce the cost of production in and across our facilities and Distribution, where we are leveraging technology and process best practices to drive increased productivity across our DSD network. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,158.4 100.0 % $ 12,454.6 100.0 % $ 11,821.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 8,042.4 72.1 9,509.3 76.4 9,084.3 76.8 Gross profit(1) 3,116.0 27.9 2,945.3 23.6 2,737.6 23.2 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,826.9 16.3 1,817.7 14.6 1,721.7 14.6 General and administrative 627.2 5.6 486.3 3.9 419.5 3.5 Amortization of intangibles 9.6 0.1 9.8 0.1 6.7 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30.2 0.3 22.8 0.1 34.4 0.3 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,493.9 22.3 2,336.6 18.7 2,184.0 18.5 Operating income $ 622.1 5.6 % $ 608.7 4.9 % $ 553.6 4.7 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2009 2008 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 8,456.2 $ 9,804.6 $ (1,348.4 ) (13.8 )% WhiteWave Morningstar 2,702.2 2,650.0 52.2 2.0 Total $ 11,158.4 $ 12,454.6 $ (1,296.2 ) (10.4 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 159.0 $ (41.5 ) $ (1,465.9 ) $ (1,348.4 ) WhiteWave Morningstar 176.4 (93.1 ) (31.1 ) 52.2 Total $ 335.4 $ (134.6 ) $ (1,497.0 ) $ (1,296.2 ) Net sales decreased $1.3 billion during 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower pricing in our Fresh Dairy Direct segment, as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Net sales in our WhiteWave Morningstar segment increased as the Alpro acquisition more than offset the impact of the pass through of lower commodity costs to customers and slightly lower sales volume, coupled with the exit of several business relationships. 29 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales decreased $1.5 billion, or 15.4%, in 2009 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued favorable commodity prices, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network. Although commodity prices remained low compared to 2008 levels, conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex, we expect that conventional milk costs will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with modest inflation towards the end of the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $157.3 million, or 6.7%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: General and administrative costs increased $140.9 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and investments in the capability build out of our supply chain, information technology and research and development functions that are foundational to our strategies; higher personnel related costs including incentive based compensation, share based compensation expense and additional headcount; higher professional fees and other outside services primarily related to our strategic initiatives, as well as higher transaction related costs. Selling and distribution costs increased $9.2 million driven by an increase in marketing spend, especially in the fourth quarter, on our nationally branded products at WhiteWave, higher expenses attributable to our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture and the impact of our recent Alpro acquisition, partially offset by lower fuel costs and benefits from our strategic initiatives across our distribution network. Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $7.4 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $246.5 million in 2009 from $308.1 million in 2008, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates during 2009 compared to the prior year. Additionally, in 2009, a $4.2 million gain was recognized related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 40.0% for 2009 compared to 38.3% in 2008. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 8,456.2 100.0 % $ 9,804.6 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,160.5 72.9 7,559.8 77.1 Gross profit 2,295.7 27.1 2,244.8 22.9 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.3 19.6 1,653.5 16.9 Total operating income $ 642.4 7.5 % $ 591.3 6.0 % 30 Table of Contents Net Sales Fresh Dairy Directs net sales decreased 13.8% during 2009 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower pricing as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Recent acquisitions and solid execution drove higher fluid milk sales volumes of approximately 2.7%, which were more than offset by lower sales volumes in other products for an overall volume decline of 0.4%. Fresh Dairy Direct generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on our Fresh Dairy Direct segments profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2009 compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31* 2009 2008 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.48 $ 18.00 (36.2 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 7.40 12.94 (42.8 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.24 1.57 (21.0 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 7.09 11.13 (36.3 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.26 1.57 (19.7 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Directs cost of sales decreased $1.4 billion, or 18.5%, in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to favorable commodity prices experience throughout the year, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network, slightly offset by higher personnel related costs. Fresh Dairy Directs gross margin increased to 27.1% in 2009 from 22.9% in 2008. Despite an overall increase on a year over year basis, the gross margin trended downward as 2009 progressed driven by the increasing intense competitive environment we have experienced. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy is driving material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Initially, this margin compression was absorbed by retailers, but as the year progressed, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions. In addition, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, further impacting profitability. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. 31 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Directs operating costs and expenses were relatively flat during the year compared to prior year. Distribution costs declined due to relatively lower fuel costs and strategic initiatives across our distribution network which was offset by higher professional fees primarily related to strategic initiatives, particularly supply chain and information technology, increased advertising expenses as well as higher personnel related costs. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,702.2 100.0 % $ 2,650.0 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,892.9 70.1 1,952.7 73.7 Gross profit 809.3 29.9 697.3 26.3 Operating costs and expenses 565.3 20.9 491.9 18.6 Total operating income $ 244.0 9.0 % $ 205.4 7.7 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Morningstar segment increased $52.2 million, or 2.0%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong sales growth in our creamers business. These increases were offset by lower net sales of extended shelf life dairy products primarily due to the pass through of lower commodity costs, throughout most of 2009, to customers and slightly lower sales volumes across the business. In addition, net sales declined slightly driven by the exit of certain foodservice and lactose free business relationships, as well as our private label milk business in the United Kingdom. Throughout 2009, we experienced continued softness in the organic milk category. We believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to premium priced categories, including organic products. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales decreased $59.8 million in 2009, compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by continued lower commodity costs, as well as productivity initiatives partly offset by the impact of our Alpro acquisition. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $73.4 million, during 2009 compared to 2008, driven by increased marketing spend on branded products, the impact of the acquisition of Alpro and higher research and development costs. This increase was largely offset by lower distribution costs due to lower sales volumes and lower fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2008 2007 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 9,804.6 $ 9,411.1 $ 393.5 4.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,650.0 2,410.8 239.2 9.9 Total $ 12,454.6 $ 11,821.9 $ 632.7 5.4 32 Table of Contents The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2008 vs. 2007 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 155.3 $ (26.2 ) $ 264.4 $ 393.5 WhiteWave Morningstar 19.6 148.6 71.0 239.2 Total $ 174.9 $ 122.4 $ 335.4 $ 632.7 Net sales increased $632.7 million or 5.4% during 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to the higher pass through of overall dairy and commodity costs and acquisitions completed in 2008 in Fresh Dairy Direct, as well as continued strong volume growth at WhiteWave Morningstar in both our national brands and cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased $425.0 million during 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher raw material and packaging costs, higher raw milk costs and increased employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $152.6 million during 2008 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $96.0 million primarily due to higher fuel costs, third party freight and fleet expenses, increased personnel related costs and higher advertising expenses; General and administrative costs increased $66.8 million primarily due to increased personnel related costs, which was significantly impacted by incentive based compensation; higher professional fees and other outside services, primarily related to strategic corporate driven initiatives, as well as increased costs related to contemplated strategic transactions; The increases above were partly offset by net facility closing, reorganization and other costs that were lower than 2007. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $308.1 million in 2008 from $333.2 million in 2007 primarily due to a lower average debt balance during 2008 driven by the reduction in debt related to our $400 million pay down of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility with proceeds from our equity offering on March 5, 2008, as well as the pay down of debt with cash flow from operations. In addition, we wrote off $13.5 million in financing costs in 2007 due to the completion of our senior secured credit facility and incurred $5.0 million of professional fees and other costs related to the payment of a special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.3% in 2008 compared to 39.2% in 2007. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. 33 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,804.6 100.0 % $ 9,411.1 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,559.8 77.1 7,320.5 77.8 Gross profit 2,244.8 22.9 2,090.6 22.2 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.5 16.9 1,552.6 16.5 Total operating income $ 591.3 6.0 % $ 538.0 5.7 % Net Sales The increase in Fresh Dairy Directs net sales of 4.2% was due primarily to the higher pass through of overall dairy and other commodity costs to customers, as well as acquisitions completed in 2008. Fresh Dairy Direct generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Directs profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2008 compared to 2007: Year Ended December 31* 2008 2007 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.00 $ 18.14 (0.8 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 12.94 13.47 (3.9 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.57 1.47 6.8 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 11.13 13.67 (18.6 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.57 1.48 6.1 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. 34 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Fresh Dairy Directs cost of sales increased by $239.3 million during 2008 driven by higher raw material and packaging costs, particularly resin and raw milk, increased employee related costs as well as higher utilities and equipment costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Directs operating costs and expenses increased by $100.9 million, during 2008. The increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs driven by higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs slightly offset by lower outside services and higher personnel related costs, due primarily to increased salaries and wages and incentive based compensation. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,650.0 100.0 % $ 2,410.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,952.7 73.7 1,762.4 73.1 Gross profit 697.3 26.3 648.4 26.9 Operating costs and expenses 491.9 18.6 443.4 18.4 Total operating income $ 205.4 7.7 % $ 205.0 8.5 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 9.9% was driven by a mix of both increased volumes and higher pricing, primarily in response to higher raw material and commodity costs. During 2008, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 11.5%, with continued strong sales growth across all of our key brands. Silk net sales increased approximately 10% in 2008 driven by volume growth from continued distribution expansion and integrated marketing that featured both print and television advertising highlighting the health benefits of our soymilk products, as well as higher pricing. Net sales of the Horizon Organic brand increased approximately 18% in 2008 driven by continued distribution expansion and differentiated innovation like our DHA enhanced and single serve products, as well as higher realized pricing. International Delight grew net sales approximately 9% in 2008 through improved price realization. LAND O LAKES creamer products grew net sales approximately 6% over last year as a result of both higher volumes and commodity related price increases. Our Morningstar business also posted sales growth during the year, increasing net sales approximately 8%, primarily driven by higher yogurt, creamer and ice cream mix sales volumes, as well as the full year benefit of an acquisition which was completed in March 2007. In 2007, the organic dairy industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $190.3 million, during 2008 driven by higher volumes and increased raw milk costs as well as higher other raw material and packaging costs and higher employee related costs. 35 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $48.5 million, during 2008, primarily due to increased selling and marketing expense driven by higher advertising spending on our brands, increased distribution costs driven by higher volumes, higher personnel related costs, including incentive based compensation, as well as higher outside services and other costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Credit market conditions deteriorated significantly during the later part of 2008 and then recovered materially during the latter part of 2009. During this time, several major banks and financial institutions failed or were forced to seek assistance through distressed sales or emergency government measures. While certain conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies may be showing recent signs of improvement, there continues to be volatility in the capital markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability and continued counterparty risk. As of December 31, 2009, these market conditions have not had a material adverse impact on our liquidity and we have maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Each of the member financial institutions participating in our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility has complied with all prior funding commitments as of our filing date. However, there can be no assurance that each financial institution will be able to continue to fulfill its funding obligations. Absent severe deterioration of market conditions, we believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our existing $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, which we intend and expect to renew under similar 364 day terms at the end of the current term, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to meet our future cash requirements. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. At December 31, 2009, we had $4.2 billion of outstanding debt obligations, cash on hand of $47.6 million and an additional $1.3 billion of combined available future borrowing capacity under our existing senior secured revolving credit facility and receivables backed facility. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances, our then current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Change Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 658,911 $ 719,258 $ (60,347 ) Investing activities (840,593 ) (341,487 ) (499,106 ) Financing activities 192,765 (373,043 ) 565,808 Discontinued operations (238 ) (1,304 ) 1,066 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 808 808 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 11,653 $ 3,424 $ 8,229 36 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to the net impact of higher net earnings offset by an increase in our working capital requirements. The increase in our working capital requirements was mainly due to the amount and timing of required estimated tax payments versus the relative profitability of our operating segments throughout 2009. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased in 2009 primarily due to higher payments for acquisitions. In 2009, we funded approximately $268.2 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions, including the acquisition of Alpro, requiring the use of cash of approximately $581.2 million. During 2008, we funded approximately $257.0 million in capital expenditures and we completed several smaller acquisitions requiring the use of cash of approximately $95.9 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased in 2009 primarily due to the issuance of 25.4 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $444.7 which was used to repay $122.8 million of the aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. Net borrowings under our senior secured revolver were partially offset by principal repayments on the secured Term A and Term B loans and the receivables backed facility, resulting in an increase of $300 million on our secured credit facility, primarily due to the 2009 acquisitions. Our continued focus on deleveraging the balance sheet resulted in overall debt reductions of $275.2 million from 2008 levels after funding the 2009 acquisitions. During 2008, we reduced our debt by approximately $800.3 million, net of debt proceeds, with cash generated from operations and an equity offering completed in March 2008. We issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering in 2008. Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of an original combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The weighted average interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 1.25% at December 31, 2009. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. The remaining term loan A is payable in 9 installments of: $56.25 million in each of the next five installments due at the end of each quarter, beginning on March 30, 2010 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments due at the end of each quarter, beginning on June 30, 2011 through December 31, 2011, with a final payment on April 2, 2012. The term loan B amortizes 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The senior secured revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion senior secured revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. 37 Table of Contents In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the senior secured revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our Leverage Ratio is below 5.00 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance for the foreseeable future. The maximum permitted leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters allowed was 5.00 times as of December 31, 2009, with a final step down to 4.50 times as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, our leverage ratio was 4.16 times. We expect that our leverage ratio will be below 4.0 times by December 31, 2010 and currently anticipate approaching our goal of approximately 3.5 times by mid year 2011. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. At December 31, 2009, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.6 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.3 billion at December 31, 2008), which consisted of $3.1 billion term loan borrowings and $515.2 million under the revolver. The increase of $300 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to funding several acquisitions during the year. At December 31, 2009, there were $193.5 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 19, 2010, $504.5 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Receivables backed Facility In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million 364 day receivables backed facility in which current availability is subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. This facility is scheduled to mature March 29, 2010 and we intend and expect to renew the facility under similar terms currently established. As of December 31, 2009, the receivables backed facility had $504.7 million available, of which zero was drawn. At February 19, 2010, $50.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Senior Notes & Capital Leases Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2009 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes, $142 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes and $7.4 million of capital lease and other obligations. 38 Table of Contents Alpro Revolving Credit Facility On July 2, 2009, our newly acquired subsidiary, Alpro N.V. entered into a two year multi currency revolving credit facility for borrowings in an amount not to exceed 20 million (or its currency equivalent). In December, 2009, we reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 10 million (or its currency equivalent). The facility is unsecured and is guaranteed by Dean Foods Company and various Alpro N.V. subsidiaries. Use of proceeds under the facility is for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Alpro N.V. The subsidiary revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to 1 million of letters of credit. No principal payments are due under the subsidiary revolving credit facility until maturity on July 2, 2011. At December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2009. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase & Lease Obligations(1) Payments Due by Period Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,597.0 $ 243.0 $ 861.8 $ 795.7 $ 18.0 $ 1,678.5 $ Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 142.0 142.0 Capital lease obligations and other 7.4 5.4 0.6 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.3 Purchase obligations(3) 683.8 488.1 70.7 29.2 16.9 14.2 64.7 Operating leases 528.2 113.8 94.1 78.4 61.0 47.4 133.5 Interest payments(4) 794.0 195.5 183.1 135.8 133.8 68.5 77.3 Total $ 6,252.4 $ 1,045.8 $ 1,210.3 $ 1,039.8 $ 230.0 $ 1,808.7 $ 917.8 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $72.6 million related to uncertain tax positions as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined benefit retirement and other post employment benefit plans. See Note 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on interest rate swaps, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2009. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In 2009 and 2008, we made contributions of $24.5 million and $25.8 million, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, 39 Table of Contents as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2009, we recorded non cash pension expense of $21.1 million, of which $20.2 million was attributable to periodic expense and $0.9 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $4.4 million in 2008, of which $2.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements. In excess of 80% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.32% at December 31, 2008 to 6.00% at December 31, 2009, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2010. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. In July 2009, the Investment Committee adopted a new long term investment policy for the master trust that decreases the expected relative holdings of equity securities that targets investments in equity securities at 59% of the portfolio, fixed income at 37%, cash equivalents at 3% and other investments of 1%. At December 31, 2009, our master trust was invested as follows: investments in equity securities were at 59%, investments in fixed income were at 35% , other investments were at 3% and cash equivalents were at 3%. See Notes 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas (DFA) 33.8% interest in our operations. In connection with that transaction, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to DFA in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is a primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our related milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not materially breached or terminated any of our related milk supply agreements with DFA. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested, certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. 40 Table of Contents See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2010, we intend to invest a total of approximately $300 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $210 million to $220 million based upon current debt levels and projected forward interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $10 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $248.4 million. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted Leverage Ratio of 5.00 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2009, this Leverage Ratio was 4.16 times. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 4.50 times as of December 31, 2010. This reduced Leverage Ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2009, $504.7 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $791.3 million also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, of this combined amount, approximately $841.3 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 19, 2010, approximately $802.0 million was available under the receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. During the next eighteen months, we expect to pursue refinancing of our senior credit facility in light of our scheduled maturities in 2012 and 2014. Although we are currently targeting this timeframe, the actual timing, approach, and terms of any such refinancing would depend upon market conditions and managements judgment, among other factors. Given the current environment of the capital markets, we expect that the interest rates on our debt will increase as a result of any such refinancing. In addition, potential expenses associated with any such refinancing may be material. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar is conventional milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). 41 Table of Contents In general, Fresh Dairy Direct and our Morningstar operations change the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases, primarily with respect to diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. The lower conventional milk prices in 2009 were in sharp contrast to the historically high conventional milk prices we experienced throughout 2007 and 2008. We expect the average Class I mover will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with potential modest inflation in the back half of the year and we expect Class II butterfat prices to increase throughout 2010. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex, we expect 2010 conventional milk prices to remain in line with the with the prices realized in the fourth quarter of 2009; which are well below the historically high levels experienced in 2007 and 2008. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 85% of our organic raw milk from a network of approximately 500 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Retail price increases on private label products generally lag that of branded products, causing retail price gaps to expand thereby creating pricing pressures and creating challenges where increasing costs of food and energy drive up the cost of organic milk faster than retail prices can be increased. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a slowing of growth in the organic milk category and this trend continued during 2009, stabilizing to relatively flat levels during the last half of 2009. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to organic milk and, as a result, we may experience a continued softening in sales in this category. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. The more stabilized demand for organic milk we are anticipating modestly lower costs in 2010. Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we began augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non Genetically Modified Organism (non GMO) soybeans. The launch of these new products has shifted a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. Fuel and Resin Costs Fresh Dairy Direct purchases approximately 3.7 million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. WhiteWave Morningstar primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. We have entered into fixed price contracts for a portion of our fuel purchases for the period January 1, 2010 through March 31, 2010, to mitigate volatility in diesel prices and we entered into a swap agreement intended to fix a portion of our fuel charges which are a component of our hauling agreements with third party distributors. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to 42 Table of Contents commodity price fluctuations, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Another significant raw material we use is resin, which is a petroleum based product used to make plastic bottles. Fresh Dairy Direct purchases approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The prices of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. Diesel and resin inflation escalated in 2007 and peaked in mid 2008 before significantly declining during the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe the prices of both resin and diesel fuel will continue to fluctuate in to 2010. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, competition has intensified as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, current economic conditions and historically low raw milk costs have led supermarkets, including vertically integrated supermarkets, and food retailers to utilize competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty. Such activity has significantly reduced the profit margins realized by supermarkets and food retailers on the sale of such products. Increasingly, this margin compression is being absorbed by dairy processors. We expect these trends to continue and intensify. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. 43 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates In certain circumstances, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates, as well as our critical accounting policies (see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets result primarily from acquisitions and primarily include trademarks with finite lives and indefinite lives and customer related intangible assets. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that the carrying value is recoverable. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed our annual impairment testing using the methods described above and recorded an immaterial impairment charge related to an indefinite lived trademark. Our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. Considerable management judgment is necessary to initially value intangible assets upon acquisition and to evaluate those assets and goodwill for impairment going forward. We determine fair value using widely acceptable valuation techniques including discounted cash flows, market multiples analyses and relief from royalty analyses. Assumptions used in our valuations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. We believe that the assumptions used in valuing our intangible assets and in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in different calculations of fair values that could result in a material impairment charge. The fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds its related carrying value by at least $250 million. Increasing our discount rates assumed in these analyses by 1% would not have resulted in an impairment charge. 44 Table of Contents Property, Plant and Equipment We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Our property, plant and equipment totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. The effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate post retirement medical obligation by approximately $1.2 million. Stock Based Compensation Plans We provide a number of stock based compensation plans to our eligible employees. We determine the fair value of our awards at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Option pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions we may be exposed to changes in stock based compensation expense that could be material. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2009, would have affected net earnings by approximately $2.4 million. 45 Table of Contents Self Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. If actual results differ from our assumptions we could be exposed to material gains or losses. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities could affect net earnings by approximately $12.4 million. At December 31, 2009 we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $206.1 million, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. A valuation allowance is recorded against a deferred tax asset if it is not more likely than not that the asset will be realized. At December 31, 2009, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $72.6 million and our valuation allowance was $11.0 million. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws, regulations, and taxing authority rulings as well as to the expiration of statutes of limitations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, several factors are considered in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets, including the remaining years available for carryforward, the tax laws for the applicable jurisdictions, the future profitability of the specific business units, and tax planning strategies. Our judgments and estimates concerning uncertain tax positions may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. Our judgments and estimates concerning realizability of deferred tax assets could change if any of the evaluation factors change. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate could increase or decrease in any period, impacting our net earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective December 31, 2009 we adopted the Accounting Standards for Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets which provides additional guidance on an employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. See Note 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective September 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) became the source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) recognized by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under authority of federal securities laws also are sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. On the effective date of this Statement, the Codification supersedes all then existing non SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other non grandfathered non SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became nonauthoritative. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Business Combinations together with additional guidance issued by the FASB in April 2009. This standard contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non controlling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition, such as research and development, and clarifies the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement, accounting and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. It also requires us to expense transaction costs as they are incurred. These provisions apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Fair Value Measurements as it applies to non financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The adoption of this Statement regarding the non financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Non controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. This statement clarifies that a non controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the non controlling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. There were no non controlling interests prior to the consolidation of the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture in the first quarter of 2009. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Disclosure About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This amendment requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, which requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods as well as in annual financial statements. The adoption of these Accounting Standards did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Subsequent Events, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued. These Accounting Standards set forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements. The adoption of this Statement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Transfer of Financial Assets which will require more information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires special disclosures. The Statement is effective for us on March 31, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact this statement may have on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards for Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). This standard changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is 47 Table of Contents required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. The statement is effective for us on March 31, 2010. We do not anticipate that this statement will change our current accounting for our investment in our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk due to commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to these fluctuations. Commodity Price Fluctuations We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, including milk, organic and non GMO soybeans, butterfat, sweeteners and other commodity costs used in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of our products; including utilities, natural gas, resin and diesel fuel. In order to secure adequate supplies of materials and bring greater stability to the cost of ingredients and their related manufacturing, packaging and distribution, we routinely enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers. Under the forward purchase contracts, we commit to purchasing agreed upon quantities of ingredients and commodities at agreed upon prices at specified future dates. The outstanding purchase commitment for these commodities at any point in time typically ranges from one months to one years anticipated requirements, depending on the ingredient or commodity. These contracts are considered normal purchases and sales. In addition to entering into forward purchase contracts, from time to time we may purchase exchange traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials that are ingredients of our products or components of such ingredients. We did not have any outstanding commodity related financial instruments at December 31, 2009. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuation, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows that arise from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We believe the credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, recently a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis and in some cases have been unable to fulfill their debt and other obligations. If any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. 48 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Fluctuations Historically, our international operations represented less than 1% of our sales and long lived assets. With our acquisition of Alpro in July 2009, the relative percentage of our international sales will increase slightly. Sales in foreign countries, as well as certain expenses related to those sales, are transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk is primarily limited to the British Pound and the Euro. We may, from time to time, employ derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates or enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our net investment and intercompany payable or receivable balances in foreign operations. During 2009, we did not enter into any foreign currency related contracts other than the forward contract related to the Alpro acquisition for which we realized a gain of $4.2 million. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct, previously referred to as DSD Dairy, is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Silk&reg; soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic&reg; milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow&reg;, International Delight&reg; coffee creamers, LAND O LAKES&reg; creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic&reg; dairy products. With the addition of our recently acquired Alpro business in Europe, WhiteWave Morningstar now offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe, marketing its products under the Alpro&reg; and Provamel&reg; brands. Additionally, WhiteWave Morningstar markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. Our Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments, Fresh Dairy Direct and WhiteWave Morningstar. Fresh Dairy Direct Fresh Dairy Direct is our largest segment, with approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales in 2009. Fresh Dairy Direct manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, creamers, ice cream, juices and teas, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature of its products, Fresh Dairy Direct delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a direct store delivery or DSD system. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by Fresh Dairy Directs corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins, fragmentation and excess capacity. Excess capacity resulted from the development of more efficient manufacturing techniques and declining demand for fluid milk products. From 1990 through 2001, the dairy industry experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation has resulted in lower operating costs, less excess capacity and greater efficiency. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline while total consumption has remained relatively flat due to population increases. Therefore, volume sales growth across the industry generally remains slow to flat, profit margins generally remain low and excess manufacturing capacity continues to exist. In this environment, price competition is particularly intense, as smaller processors seek to retain enough volume to cover their fixed costs. In addition, current economic conditions and historically low raw milk costs have led supermarkets, including vertically integrated supermarkets, and food retailers to utilize competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty. Such activity has significantly reduced the profit margins realized by supermarkets and foods retailers on the sale of such products. Increasingly, this margin compression is being absorbed by dairy processors. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and will continue these efforts for the foreseeable future. Historically, Fresh Dairy Directs volume growth has kept pace with or exceeded the industry, which we attribute largely to our national DSD system, brand recognition, service and quality. In 2009, due in part to acquisitions, we were able to increase our sales volume of fresh fluid milk and our market share in this product category. Fresh Dairy Direct has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases Fresh 26 Table of Contents Dairy Direct pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Morningstar WhiteWave Morningstars net sales were approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales in 2009. WhiteWave Morningstar manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy related products such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic dairy and other products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products and Rachels Organic dairy products. We license the LAND O LAKES name from a third party. With the addition of Alpro, it now offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe, marketing its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. WhiteWave Morningstar also includes private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products such as ice cream mix, sour and whipped cream, yogurt and cottage cheese. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Morningstar sells its products primarily through its internal sales force and through independent brokers. The majority of the WhiteWave Morningstar products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWave Morningstar has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Morningstar pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy and organic foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits of soy and organic foods, and we believe WhiteWave Morningstar has a leading position in the soy and organic foods category. Recent Developments Current Dairy Environment Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. The lower conventional milk prices in 2009 were in sharp contrast to the historically high conventional milk prices we experienced throughout 2007 and 2008. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex we expect the average Class I mover will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with potential modest inflation in the back half of the year and we expect Class II butterfat prices to increase throughout 2010. Organic Milk Environment During 2009, we have continued experiencing a slowing of growth in the organic milk category from 2008, declining to relatively flat year over year levels by the end of 2009. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to organic milk and, as a result, we may experience a continued softening in sales in this category. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category, including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. With the more stabilized demand for organic milk we are anticipating modestly lower costs in 2010. Appointment of Joe Scalzo as Dean Foods Chief Operating Officer (COO) In October 2009, we announced the promotion of Joe Scalzo to COO, effective November 1, 2009. In his new role, Mr. Scalzo will oversee all of our operations, including Fresh Dairy Direct, WhiteWave, Morningstar, Alpro and the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture, as well as key strategic functions including worldwide supply chain, R&D and innovation. 27 Table of Contents Public Offering of Equity Securities In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. Acquisitions On July 2, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the Alpro division of Vandemoortele, N.V. (Alpro), a privately held food company based in Belgium, for an aggregate purchase price of 314.6 million ($440.3 million) after working capital adjustments, excluding transaction costs which were expensed as incurred. Alpro manufactures and sells branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe. The acquisition of Alpro will provide opportunities to leverage the collective strengths of our combined businesses across a global soy beverages and related products category. During 2009, we completed four other acquisitions of businesses and other identifiable intangible assets for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $143.5 million. All of these acquisitions were funded with borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. We recorded approximately $31.3 million in acquisition related expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009, in connection with these acquisitions, including expenses related to due diligence, investment advisors and regulatory matters, as well as other non material transactional activities. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, to introduce a new innovative product line to North America. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and manufacturing network, as well as the go to market system of Dean Foods. The joint venture, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, serves as a strategic growth platform for both companies to further extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. During the first quarter of 2009, the joint venture began to manufacture and distribute its primary product, Fruit2Day&reg;, in limited test markets in the United States. During the second quarter of 2009, the product was nationally launched in grocery and club store channels. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities We closed four facilities within Fresh Dairy Direct during 2009. We recorded facility closing and reorganization costs of $30.2 million including approximately $16.3 million in impairment charges and $13.9 million in employee termination and other costs associated with these and previously announced closures during the year ended December 31, 2009. Strategic Initiatives Currently, our strategy is to build on our scale advantaged position in the dairy industry with an initial and key strategic focus on cost reduction across the organization, but particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct. In 2009, we began a three to five year company wide cost savings initiative targeting company wide cost reductions of approximately $300 million over this timeframe. Our cost savings initiative efforts are primarily focused on three areas: Procurement, where we are leveraging our scale to drive our costs lower, Conversion, where continuous improvement and network optimization are coupled to reduce the cost of production in and across our facilities and Distribution, where we are leveraging technology and process best practices to drive increased productivity across our DSD network. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,158.4 100.0 % $ 12,454.6 100.0 % $ 11,821.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 8,042.4 72.1 9,509.3 76.4 9,084.3 76.8 Gross profit(1) 3,116.0 27.9 2,945.3 23.6 2,737.6 23.2 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,826.9 16.3 1,817.7 14.6 1,721.7 14.6 General and administrative 627.2 5.6 486.3 3.9 419.5 3.5 Amortization of intangibles 9.6 0.1 9.8 0.1 6.7 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30.2 0.3 22.8 0.1 34.4 0.3 Other operating expense 1.7 Total operating costs and expenses 2,493.9 22.3 2,336.6 18.7 2,184.0 18.5 Operating income $ 622.1 5.6 % $ 608.7 4.9 % $ 553.6 4.7 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2009 2008 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 8,456.2 $ 9,804.6 $ (1,348.4 ) (13.8 )% WhiteWave Morningstar 2,702.2 2,650.0 52.2 2.0 Total $ 11,158.4 $ 12,454.6 $ (1,296.2 ) (10.4 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 159.0 $ (41.5 ) $ (1,465.9 ) $ (1,348.4 ) WhiteWave Morningstar 176.4 (93.1 ) (31.1 ) 52.2 Total $ 335.4 $ (134.6 ) $ (1,497.0 ) $ (1,296.2 ) Net sales decreased $1.3 billion during 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower pricing in our Fresh Dairy Direct segment, as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Net sales in our WhiteWave Morningstar segment increased as the Alpro acquisition more than offset the impact of the pass through of lower commodity costs to customers and slightly lower sales volume, coupled with the exit of several business relationships. 29 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales decreased $1.5 billion, or 15.4%, in 2009 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued favorable commodity prices, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network. Although commodity prices remained low compared to 2008 levels, conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex, we expect that conventional milk costs will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with modest inflation towards the end of the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $157.3 million, or 6.7%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: General and administrative costs increased $140.9 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and investments in the capability build out of our supply chain, information technology and research and development functions that are foundational to our strategies; higher personnel related costs including incentive based compensation, share based compensation expense and additional headcount; higher professional fees and other outside services primarily related to our strategic initiatives, as well as higher transaction related costs. Selling and distribution costs increased $9.2 million driven by an increase in marketing spend, especially in the fourth quarter, on our nationally branded products at WhiteWave, higher expenses attributable to our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture and the impact of our recent Alpro acquisition, partially offset by lower fuel costs and benefits from our strategic initiatives across our distribution network. Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $7.4 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $246.5 million in 2009 from $308.1 million in 2008, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates during 2009 compared to the prior year. Additionally, in 2009, a $4.2 million gain was recognized related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 40.0% for 2009 compared to 38.3% in 2008. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 8,456.2 100.0 % $ 9,804.6 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,160.5 72.9 7,559.8 77.1 Gross profit 2,295.7 27.1 2,244.8 22.9 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.3 19.6 1,653.5 16.9 Total operating income $ 642.4 7.5 % $ 591.3 6.0 % 30 Table of Contents Net Sales Fresh Dairy Directs net sales decreased 13.8% during 2009 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower pricing as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Recent acquisitions and solid execution drove higher fluid milk sales volumes of approximately 2.7%, which were more than offset by lower sales volumes in other products for an overall volume decline of 0.4%. Fresh Dairy Direct generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on our Fresh Dairy Direct segments profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2009 compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31* 2009 2008 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.48 $ 18.00 (36.2 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 7.40 12.94 (42.8 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.24 1.57 (21.0 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 7.09 11.13 (36.3 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.26 1.57 (19.7 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Directs cost of sales decreased $1.4 billion, or 18.5%, in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to favorable commodity prices experience throughout the year, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network, slightly offset by higher personnel related costs. Fresh Dairy Directs gross margin increased to 27.1% in 2009 from 22.9% in 2008. Despite an overall increase on a year over year basis, the gross margin trended downward as 2009 progressed driven by the increasing intense competitive environment we have experienced. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy is driving material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Initially, this margin compression was absorbed by retailers, but as the year progressed, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions. In addition, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, further impacting profitability. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. 31 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Directs operating costs and expenses were relatively flat during the year compared to prior year. Distribution costs declined due to relatively lower fuel costs and strategic initiatives across our distribution network which was offset by higher professional fees primarily related to strategic initiatives, particularly supply chain and information technology, increased advertising expenses as well as higher personnel related costs. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,702.2 100.0 % $ 2,650.0 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,892.9 70.1 1,952.7 73.7 Gross profit 809.3 29.9 697.3 26.3 Operating costs and expenses 565.3 20.9 491.9 18.6 Total operating income $ 244.0 9.0 % $ 205.4 7.7 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Morningstar segment increased $52.2 million, or 2.0%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong sales growth in our creamers business. These increases were offset by lower net sales of extended shelf life dairy products primarily due to the pass through of lower commodity costs, throughout most of 2009, to customers and slightly lower sales volumes across the business. In addition, net sales declined slightly driven by the exit of certain foodservice and lactose free business relationships, as well as our private label milk business in the United Kingdom. Throughout 2009, we experienced continued softness in the organic milk category. We believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to premium priced categories, including organic products. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales decreased $59.8 million in 2009, compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by continued lower commodity costs, as well as productivity initiatives partly offset by the impact of our Alpro acquisition. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $73.4 million, during 2009 compared to 2008, driven by increased marketing spend on branded products, the impact of the acquisition of Alpro and higher research and development costs. This increase was largely offset by lower distribution costs due to lower sales volumes and lower fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2008 2007 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 9,804.6 $ 9,411.1 $ 393.5 4.2 % WhiteWave Morningstar 2,650.0 2,410.8 239.2 9.9 Total $ 12,454.6 $ 11,821.9 $ 632.7 5.4 32 Table of Contents The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2008 vs. 2007 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct $ 155.3 $ (26.2 ) $ 264.4 $ 393.5 WhiteWave Morningstar 19.6 148.6 71.0 239.2 Total $ 174.9 $ 122.4 $ 335.4 $ 632.7 Net sales increased $632.7 million or 5.4% during 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to the higher pass through of overall dairy and commodity costs and acquisitions completed in 2008 in Fresh Dairy Direct, as well as continued strong volume growth at WhiteWave Morningstar in both our national brands and cultured and extended shelf life dairy products. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Cost of sales increased $425.0 million during 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher raw material and packaging costs, higher raw milk costs and increased employee related costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $152.6 million during 2008 compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $96.0 million primarily due to higher fuel costs, third party freight and fleet expenses, increased personnel related costs and higher advertising expenses; General and administrative costs increased $66.8 million primarily due to increased personnel related costs, which was significantly impacted by incentive based compensation; higher professional fees and other outside services, primarily related to strategic corporate driven initiatives, as well as increased costs related to contemplated strategic transactions; The increases above were partly offset by net facility closing, reorganization and other costs that were lower than 2007. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $308.1 million in 2008 from $333.2 million in 2007 primarily due to a lower average debt balance during 2008 driven by the reduction in debt related to our $400 million pay down of the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility with proceeds from our equity offering on March 5, 2008, as well as the pay down of debt with cash flow from operations. In addition, we wrote off $13.5 million in financing costs in 2007 due to the completion of our senior secured credit facility and incurred $5.0 million of professional fees and other costs related to the payment of a special cash dividend. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 38.3% in 2008 compared to 39.2% in 2007. Our effective tax rate varies based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. 33 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,804.6 100.0 % $ 9,411.1 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,559.8 77.1 7,320.5 77.8 Gross profit 2,244.8 22.9 2,090.6 22.2 Operating costs and expenses 1,653.5 16.9 1,552.6 16.5 Total operating income $ 591.3 6.0 % $ 538.0 5.7 % Net Sales The increase in Fresh Dairy Directs net sales of 4.2% was due primarily to the higher pass through of overall dairy and other commodity costs to customers, as well as acquisitions completed in 2008. Fresh Dairy Direct generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Directs profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2008 compared to 2007: Year Ended December 31* 2008 2007 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 18.00 $ 18.14 (0.8 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 12.94 13.47 (3.9 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.57 1.47 6.8 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 11.13 13.67 (18.6 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.57 1.48 6.1 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Throughout 2007, we experienced rapidly increasing and historically high conventional milk prices. In 2008, we continued to experience historically high conventional milk prices. Contributors to the high prices included high feed and fuel costs, as well as global demand for dry powdered milk. This was compounded by significant and sustained increases in diesel fuel and resin costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the industry experienced a sharp decline for export demands and favorable movements in energy cost components resulting in declines in conventional milk, diesel and resin prices. Despite the volatility of the average Class I mover throughout 2007 and 2008, the average for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 approximated that of 2007. 34 Table of Contents Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs, including costs to operate and maintain our coolers and freezers. Fresh Dairy Directs cost of sales increased by $239.3 million during 2008 driven by higher raw material and packaging costs, particularly resin and raw milk, increased employee related costs as well as higher utilities and equipment costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Directs operating costs and expenses increased by $100.9 million, during 2008. The increase was primarily due to higher distribution costs driven by higher fuel, third party freight and fleet costs slightly offset by lower outside services and higher personnel related costs, due primarily to increased salaries and wages and incentive based compensation. WhiteWave Morningstar The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Morningstar are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2008 2007 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,650.0 100.0 % $ 2,410.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,952.7 73.7 1,762.4 73.1 Gross profit 697.3 26.3 648.4 26.9 Operating costs and expenses 491.9 18.6 443.4 18.4 Total operating income $ 205.4 7.7 % $ 205.0 8.5 % Net Sales The increase in WhiteWave Morningstars net sales of 9.9% was driven by a mix of both increased volumes and higher pricing, primarily in response to higher raw material and commodity costs. During 2008, total net sales for the WhiteWave brands increased 11.5%, with continued strong sales growth across all of our key brands. Silk net sales increased approximately 10% in 2008 driven by volume growth from continued distribution expansion and integrated marketing that featured both print and television advertising highlighting the health benefits of our soymilk products, as well as higher pricing. Net sales of the Horizon Organic brand increased approximately 18% in 2008 driven by continued distribution expansion and differentiated innovation like our DHA enhanced and single serve products, as well as higher realized pricing. International Delight grew net sales approximately 9% in 2008 through improved price realization. LAND O LAKES creamer products grew net sales approximately 6% over last year as a result of both higher volumes and commodity related price increases. Our Morningstar business also posted sales growth during the year, increasing net sales approximately 8%, primarily driven by higher yogurt, creamer and ice cream mix sales volumes, as well as the full year benefit of an acquisition which was completed in March 2007. In 2007, the organic dairy industry, including us, experienced a significant oversupply of organic raw milk driven by earlier changes in the organic farm transition regulations, as well as economic incentives for conventional farmers to begin the transition to organic farming. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors within this product category, particularly in the second half of 2007, in an effort to stimulate incremental demand and sell their supply in the organic milk market. Consequently, this market activity increased competitive pressure from both branded and private label participants. In 2008, the balance of supply and demand improved resulting in a reduction of the aggressive discounting. However, sharp increases in feed and fuel costs drove up the cost of organic raw milk at a greater pace than the corresponding increases in retail prices. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Morningstars cost of sales increased by $190.3 million, during 2008 driven by higher volumes and increased raw milk costs as well as higher other raw material and packaging costs and higher employee related costs. 35 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $48.5 million, during 2008, primarily due to increased selling and marketing expense driven by higher advertising spending on our brands, increased distribution costs driven by higher volumes, higher personnel related costs, including incentive based compensation, as well as higher outside services and other costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Credit market conditions deteriorated significantly during the later part of 2008 and then recovered materially during the latter part of 2009. During this time, several major banks and financial institutions failed or were forced to seek assistance through distressed sales or emergency government measures. While certain conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies may be showing recent signs of improvement, there continues to be volatility in the capital markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability and continued counterparty risk. As of December 31, 2009, these market conditions have not had a material adverse impact on our liquidity and we have maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Each of the member financial institutions participating in our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility has complied with all prior funding commitments as of our filing date. However, there can be no assurance that each financial institution will be able to continue to fulfill its funding obligations. Absent severe deterioration of market conditions, we believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our existing $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, which we intend and expect to renew under similar 364 day terms at the end of the current term, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to meet our future cash requirements. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. At December 31, 2009, we had $4.2 billion of outstanding debt obligations, cash on hand of $47.6 million and an additional $1.3 billion of combined available future borrowing capacity under our existing senior secured revolving credit facility and receivables backed facility. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances, our then current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Change Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 658,911 $ 719,258 $ (60,347 ) Investing activities (840,593 ) (341,487 ) (499,106 ) Financing activities 192,765 (373,043 ) 565,808 Discontinued operations (238 ) (1,304 ) 1,066 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 808 808 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 11,653 $ 3,424 $ 8,229 36 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to the net impact of higher net earnings offset by an increase in our working capital requirements. The increase in our working capital requirements was mainly due to the amount and timing of required estimated tax payments versus the relative profitability of our operating segments throughout 2009. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased in 2009 primarily due to higher payments for acquisitions. In 2009, we funded approximately $268.2 million in capital expenditures and we completed several acquisitions, including the acquisition of Alpro, requiring the use of cash of approximately $581.2 million. During 2008, we funded approximately $257.0 million in capital expenditures and we completed several smaller acquisitions requiring the use of cash of approximately $95.9 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased in 2009 primarily due to the issuance of 25.4 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $444.7 which was used to repay $122.8 million of the aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. Net borrowings under our senior secured revolver were partially offset by principal repayments on the secured Term A and Term B loans and the receivables backed facility, resulting in an increase of $300 million on our secured credit facility, primarily due to the 2009 acquisitions. Our continued focus on deleveraging the balance sheet resulted in overall debt reductions of $275.2 million from 2008 levels after funding the 2009 acquisitions. During 2008, we reduced our debt by approximately $800.3 million, net of debt proceeds, with cash generated from operations and an equity offering completed in March 2008. We issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering in 2008. Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of an original combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our Leverage Ratio. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our revolving credit and term loan A varies from zero to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 62.5 to 175 basis points. The Applicable Base Rate margin under our term loan B varies from 37.5 to 75 basis points, while the Applicable LIBOR Rate margin varies from 137.5 to 175 basis points. The weighted average interest rate in effect on borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, including the applicable interest rate margin, was 1.25% at December 31, 2009. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. The remaining term loan A is payable in 9 installments of: $56.25 million in each of the next five installments due at the end of each quarter, beginning on March 30, 2010 and ending on March 31, 2011; and $262.5 million in each of the next four installments due at the end of each quarter, beginning on June 30, 2011 through December 31, 2011, with a final payment on April 2, 2012. The term loan B amortizes 1% per year, or $4.5 million on a quarterly basis, with any remaining principal balance due at final maturity on April 2, 2014. The senior secured revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to $350 million of letters of credit and up to $150 million for swing line loans. No principal payments are due on the $1.5 billion senior secured revolving credit facility until maturity on April 2, 2012. The credit agreement also requires mandatory principal prepayments upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions, recovery events, or as a result of exceeding certain leverage limits. 37 Table of Contents In consideration for the revolving commitment, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on unused amounts of the senior secured revolving credit facility that ranges from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points, depending on our Leverage Ratio. Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we are currently engaged, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our Leverage Ratio is below 5.00 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance for the foreseeable future. The maximum permitted leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters allowed was 5.00 times as of December 31, 2009, with a final step down to 4.50 times as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, our leverage ratio was 4.16 times. We expect that our leverage ratio will be below 4.0 times by December 31, 2010 and currently anticipate approaching our goal of approximately 3.5 times by mid year 2011. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels. At December 31, 2009, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.6 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.3 billion at December 31, 2008), which consisted of $3.1 billion term loan borrowings and $515.2 million under the revolver. The increase of $300 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to funding several acquisitions during the year. At December 31, 2009, there were $193.5 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 19, 2010, $504.5 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Receivables backed Facility In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million 364 day receivables backed facility in which current availability is subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. This facility is scheduled to mature March 29, 2010 and we intend and expect to renew the facility under similar terms currently established. As of December 31, 2009, the receivables backed facility had $504.7 million available, of which zero was drawn. At February 19, 2010, $50.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Senior Notes & Capital Leases Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2009 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes, $142 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes and $7.4 million of capital lease and other obligations. 38 Table of Contents Alpro Revolving Credit Facility On July 2, 2009, our newly acquired subsidiary, Alpro N.V. entered into a two year multi currency revolving credit facility for borrowings in an amount not to exceed 20 million (or its currency equivalent). In December, 2009, we reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 10 million (or its currency equivalent). The facility is unsecured and is guaranteed by Dean Foods Company and various Alpro N.V. subsidiaries. Use of proceeds under the facility is for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Alpro N.V. The subsidiary revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to 1 million of letters of credit. No principal payments are due under the subsidiary revolving credit facility until maturity on July 2, 2011. At December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase and lease obligations at December 31, 2009. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Indebtedness, Purchase & Lease Obligations(1) Payments Due by Period Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,597.0 $ 243.0 $ 861.8 $ 795.7 $ 18.0 $ 1,678.5 $ Dean Foods Company senior notes(2) 500.0 500.0 Subsidiary senior notes(2) 142.0 142.0 Capital lease obligations and other 7.4 5.4 0.6 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.3 Purchase obligations(3) 683.8 488.1 70.7 29.2 16.9 14.2 64.7 Operating leases 528.2 113.8 94.1 78.4 61.0 47.4 133.5 Interest payments(4) 794.0 195.5 183.1 135.8 133.8 68.5 77.3 Total $ 6,252.4 $ 1,045.8 $ 1,210.3 $ 1,039.8 $ 230.0 $ 1,808.7 $ 917.8 (1) Excluded from this table are estimated obligations of $72.6 million related to uncertain tax positions as the timing of such payments cannot be reasonably determined. Also excluded are future contributions under our company sponsored defined benefit retirement and other post employment benefit plans. See Note 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our employee retirement and profit sharing plans. (2) Represents face value. (3) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (4) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on interest rate swaps, as well as interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2009. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Other Long Term Liabilities We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In 2009 and 2008, we made contributions of $24.5 million and $25.8 million, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, 39 Table of Contents as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2009, we recorded non cash pension expense of $21.1 million, of which $20.2 million was attributable to periodic expense and $0.9 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $4.4 million in 2008, of which $2.7 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements. In excess of 80% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.32% at December 31, 2008 to 6.00% at December 31, 2009, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2010. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. In July 2009, the Investment Committee adopted a new long term investment policy for the master trust that decreases the expected relative holdings of equity securities that targets investments in equity securities at 59% of the portfolio, fixed income at 37%, cash equivalents at 3% and other investments of 1%. At December 31, 2009, our master trust was invested as follows: investments in equity securities were at 59%, investments in fixed income were at 35% , other investments were at 3% and cash equivalents were at 3%. See Notes 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas (DFA) 33.8% interest in our operations. In connection with that transaction, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to DFA in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is a primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our related milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not materially breached or terminated any of our related milk supply agreements with DFA. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested, certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. 40 Table of Contents See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2010, we intend to invest a total of approximately $300 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities. We expect cash interest to be approximately $210 million to $220 million based upon current debt levels and projected forward interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $10 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $248.4 million. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted Leverage Ratio of 5.00 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2009, this Leverage Ratio was 4.16 times. The maximum permitted Leverage Ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 4.50 times as of December 31, 2010. This reduced Leverage Ratio could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility. At December 31, 2009, $504.7 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $791.3 million also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, of this combined amount, approximately $841.3 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 19, 2010, approximately $802.0 million was available under the receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. During the next eighteen months, we expect to pursue refinancing of our senior credit facility in light of our scheduled maturities in 2012 and 2014. Although we are currently targeting this timeframe, the actual timing, approach, and terms of any such refinancing would depend upon market conditions and managements judgment, among other factors. Given the current environment of the capital markets, we expect that the interest rates on our debt will increase as a result of any such refinancing. In addition, potential expenses associated with any such refinancing may be material. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar is conventional milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). 41 Table of Contents In general, Fresh Dairy Direct and our Morningstar operations change the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases, primarily with respect to diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. The lower conventional milk prices in 2009 were in sharp contrast to the historically high conventional milk prices we experienced throughout 2007 and 2008. We expect the average Class I mover will be fairly stable through the first half of 2010 with potential modest inflation in the back half of the year and we expect Class II butterfat prices to increase throughout 2010. With the domestic economy still struggling and little indication that export activity will have a meaningful impact to the U.S. dairy complex, we expect 2010 conventional milk prices to remain in line with the with the prices realized in the fourth quarter of 2009; which are well below the historically high levels experienced in 2007 and 2008. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 85% of our organic raw milk from a network of approximately 500 dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own and operate and a third farm that we lease and have contracted with a third party to manage and operate. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to three years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry remains a relatively new category and continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Retail price increases on private label products generally lag that of branded products, causing retail price gaps to expand thereby creating pricing pressures and creating challenges where increasing costs of food and energy drive up the cost of organic milk faster than retail prices can be increased. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we started to experience a slowing of growth in the organic milk category and this trend continued during 2009, stabilizing to relatively flat levels during the last half of 2009. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, we believe milk consumers have become price sensitive to organic milk and, as a result, we may experience a continued softening in sales in this category. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. The more stabilized demand for organic milk we are anticipating modestly lower costs in 2010. Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we began augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with non Genetically Modified Organism (non GMO) soybeans. The launch of these new products has shifted a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. Fuel and Resin Costs Fresh Dairy Direct purchases approximately 3.7 million gallons of diesel fuel per month to operate its extensive DSD system. WhiteWave Morningstar primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. We have entered into fixed price contracts for a portion of our fuel purchases for the period January 1, 2010 through March 31, 2010, to mitigate volatility in diesel prices and we entered into a swap agreement intended to fix a portion of our fuel charges which are a component of our hauling agreements with third party distributors. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to 42 Table of Contents commodity price fluctuations, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Another significant raw material we use is resin, which is a petroleum based product used to make plastic bottles. Fresh Dairy Direct purchases approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. The prices of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. Diesel and resin inflation escalated in 2007 and peaked in mid 2008 before significantly declining during the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe the prices of both resin and diesel fuel will continue to fluctuate in to 2010. Competitive Environment There has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, competition has intensified as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, current economic conditions and historically low raw milk costs have led supermarkets, including vertically integrated supermarkets, and food retailers to utilize competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty. Such activity has significantly reduced the profit margins realized by supermarkets and food retailers on the sale of such products. Increasingly, this margin compression is being absorbed by dairy processors. We expect these trends to continue and intensify. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. 43 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates In certain circumstances, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates, as well as our critical accounting policies (see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets result primarily from acquisitions and primarily include trademarks with finite lives and indefinite lives and customer related intangible assets. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that the carrying value is recoverable. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed our annual impairment testing using the methods described above and recorded an immaterial impairment charge related to an indefinite lived trademark. Our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. Considerable management judgment is necessary to initially value intangible assets upon acquisition and to evaluate those assets and goodwill for impairment going forward. We determine fair value using widely acceptable valuation techniques including discounted cash flows, market multiples analyses and relief from royalty analyses. Assumptions used in our valuations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. We believe that the assumptions used in valuing our intangible assets and in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in different calculations of fair values that could result in a material impairment charge. The fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds its related carrying value by at least $250 million. Increasing our discount rates assumed in these analyses by 1% would not have resulted in an impairment charge. 44 Table of Contents Property, Plant and Equipment We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Our property, plant and equipment totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. The effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate post retirement medical obligation by approximately $1.2 million. Stock Based Compensation Plans We provide a number of stock based compensation plans to our eligible employees. We determine the fair value of our awards at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Option pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions we may be exposed to changes in stock based compensation expense that could be material. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2009, would have affected net earnings by approximately $2.4 million. 45 Table of Contents Self Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. If actual results differ from our assumptions we could be exposed to material gains or losses. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities could affect net earnings by approximately $12.4 million. At December 31, 2009 we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $206.1 million, including both current and long term liabilities. Income Taxes A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. A valuation allowance is recorded against a deferred tax asset if it is not more likely than not that the asset will be realized. At December 31, 2009, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $72.6 million and our valuation allowance was $11.0 million. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws, regulations, and taxing authority rulings as well as to the expiration of statutes of limitations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, several factors are considered in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets, including the remaining years available for carryforward, the tax laws for the applicable jurisdictions, the future profitability of the specific business units, and tax planning strategies. Our judgments and estimates concerning uncertain tax positions may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. Our judgments and estimates concerning realizability of deferred tax assets could change if any of the evaluation factors change. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate could increase or decrease in any period, impacting our net earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective December 31, 2009 we adopted the Accounting Standards for Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets which provides additional guidance on an employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. See Note 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective September 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) became the source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) recognized by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under authority of federal securities laws also are sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. On the effective date of this Statement, the Codification supersedes all then existing non SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other non grandfathered non SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became nonauthoritative. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Business Combinations together with additional guidance issued by the FASB in April 2009. This standard contains a number of major changes affecting the allocation of the value of acquired assets and liabilities including requiring an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non controlling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. This standard also requires the fair value measurement of certain other assets and liabilities related to the acquisition, such as research and development, and clarifies the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement, accounting and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. It also requires us to expense transaction costs as they are incurred. These provisions apply only to acquisition transactions completed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Fair Value Measurements as it applies to non financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The adoption of this Statement regarding the non financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Non controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. This statement clarifies that a non controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated net income should include the net income for both the parent and the non controlling interest with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. There were no non controlling interests prior to the consolidation of the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture in the first quarter of 2009. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Disclosure About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This amendment requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, which requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods as well as in annual financial statements. The adoption of these Accounting Standards did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Subsequent Events, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued. These Accounting Standards set forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements. The adoption of this Statement did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Transfer of Financial Assets which will require more information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires special disclosures. The Statement is effective for us on March 31, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact this statement may have on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards for Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). This standard changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is 47 Table of Contents required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. The statement is effective for us on March 31, 2010. We do not anticipate that this statement will change our current accounting for our investment in our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk due to commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to these fluctuations. Commodity Price Fluctuations We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, including milk, organic and non GMO soybeans, butterfat, sweeteners and other commodity costs used in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of our products; including utilities, natural gas, resin and diesel fuel. In order to secure adequate supplies of materials and bring greater stability to the cost of ingredients and their related manufacturing, packaging and distribution, we routinely enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers. Under the forward purchase contracts, we commit to purchasing agreed upon quantities of ingredients and commodities at agreed upon prices at specified future dates. The outstanding purchase commitment for these commodities at any point in time typically ranges from one months to one years anticipated requirements, depending on the ingredient or commodity. These contracts are considered normal purchases and sales. In addition to entering into forward purchase contracts, from time to time we may purchase exchange traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials that are ingredients of our products or components of such ingredients. We did not have any outstanding commodity related financial instruments at December 31, 2009. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuation, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows that arise from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We believe the credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, recently a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis and in some cases have been unable to fulfill their debt and other obligations. If any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. 48 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Fluctuations Historically, our international operations represented less than 1% of our sales and long lived assets. With our acquisition of Alpro in July 2009, the relative percentage of our international sales will increase slightly. Sales in foreign countries, as well as certain expenses related to those sales, are transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk is primarily limited to the British Pound and the Euro. We may, from time to time, employ derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates or enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our net investment and intercompany payable or receivable balances in foreign operations. During 2009, we did not enter into any foreign currency related contracts other than the forward contract related to the Alpro acquisition for which we realized a gain of $4.2 million. 
 
