Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs, as well as Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpro manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, as well as other plant based beverages, such as soy, almond, and coconut milks, and soy food products, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages, such as soy, almond and coconut milks, and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with Fruit2Day. WhiteWave Alpros net sales totaled $1.9 billion in 2010, or approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural foods stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products primarily through its internal sales forces and independent brokers. WhiteWave Alpros largest customer is Wal Mart, which includes its subsidiaries such as Sams Club, accounting for approximately 16% of WhiteWave Alpros net sales in 2010. Approximately 82% of WhiteWave Alpros net sales are domestic. 5 Table of Contents The following charts graphically depict WhiteWave Alpros 2010 net sales by the mix of our branded versus private label products and customer: *Represents less than 1% of our total brand mix. (1) Includes Horizon Organic and The Organic Cow organic dairy products. (2) Includes private label organic milk and plant based products. (3) Includes both Alpro and Provamel brands in Europe. WhiteWave Alpro currently operates five domestic and four international manufacturing facilities. For more information about facilities in WhiteWave Alpro, see Item 2. Properties. The remaining products are manufactured by third party manufacturers under processing agreements. The majority of WhiteWave Alpros products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. The primary raw materials used in our soy based products include both organic soybeans and non genetically modified (non GMO) soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 90% of our organic raw milk from a network of more than 550 family dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to five years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The primary raw material used in our non organic dairy products is conventional raw milk. Other raw materials used in WhiteWave Alpros products include palm oil, flavorings and sweeteners. Certain of these raw materials are purchased under long term contracts in order to better manage the supply and costs of our inputs. WhiteWave Alpro has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on brand recognition and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Alpro pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for plant based and organic beverages and foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits attributable to these products, and we believe WhiteWave Alpro has a leading position in these categories. For more information on factors that could impact the results of WhiteWave Alpro, see Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation, Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs, as well as Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Current Business Strategy The evolution of Dean Foods into a leading dairy processor began in the early nineties with an acquisition focused strategy centered on creating scale to align with a consolidating customer base. Since 1993, we have completed more than 40 acquisitions of high quality dairies, dairy products and soy brands, increasing net sales from $150 million to more than $12 billion in 2010. We believe our portfolio of manufacturing and distribution assets enables us to offer regional and national branded and private label products across a variety of product categories, ranging from short shelf life (less than 20 days) to extended shelf life (45 to 60 days) to shelf stable products (6 to 12 months), to customers in a cost effective manner. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar operates one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD networks in the United States, and WhiteWave Alpro maintains significant share positions in soy based and other plant based beverages, organic dairy and creamers in the United States and Europe. Our two business reporting segments, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro, operate as two distinct businesses, and we have developed separate strategies to address their respective sets of business opportunities and challenges. As explained more fully below, our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar strategy focuses on reducing cost and increasing profitability, while working to optimize our fluid milk production network. In contrast, we believe WhiteWave Alpro is well positioned to build on the continuing growth of its branded businesses, and we have developed a strategy to further expand that growth while continuing to focus on cost reduction and capability building. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Large format gallons of milk are the core of our dairy business. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars strategy is centered around achieving significantly lower cost per unit of product produced. To build the core business while meeting current market challenges and customer expectations, the Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar strategy focuses on the following: reducing farm to store cost for gallons of milk in large format outlets by optimizing the efficiency of our production network; getting leaner across the business while improving key functional capabilities by redesigning and further streamlining certain processes, such as back office functions; integrating the sales teams of our Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar organizations to offer our key customers the breadth of our dairy portfolio and provide one face to the customer; driving profitable growth in winning categories by selectively exiting certain non core categories and reinvesting in others; and aligning our organizational structure and mobilizing the employee base to address key initiatives while sustaining customer and profit focus. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpro competes in categories such as organic milk, creamers and plant based beverages (such as soy milk and almond milk) that we believe have strong long term growth potential due to their relative immaturity, low household penetration numbers and strong consumer interest. Within these categories, WhiteWave Alpro brands are often category leaders. To build further growth, the WhiteWave Alpro strategy encompasses the following: expanding the plant based beverage categorys scope by further expansion with products such as almond and coconut milk, and continuing to innovate behind the Silk brand; investing in emerging and alternative channels and expanding the geography and platform of our portfolio; reducing costs to increase profitability, including creation of a new, centrally located U.S. production facility to add needed capacity and further optimize the supply chain for growth; 7 Table of Contents developing commercial, marketing, innovation, customer logistics, financial management and strategic sales capabilities to enhance growth within the organization; and continuing to support our environment, community and employees through sustainability efforts, building organizational diversity and safeguarding the unique culture and reputation of the organization. Future Direction Within these strategies, a sense of corporate responsibility remains an integral part of our efforts. As we work to improve our business, we are committed to do it in a way that is right for our employees, shareholders, consumers, retail customers and the environment. We will realize savings by reducing waste and duplication while we continue to support programs that improve our local communities. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonal changes in the demand for dairy products. The demand for dairy is fairly stable through the first three quarters of the year with a marked increase in the fourth quarter. Fluid milk volumes tend to decrease in the second and third quarters of the year primarily due to the reduction in dairy consumption associated with our school business. However, this drop in volumes is offset by the increase in ice cream and ice cream mix consumption during the summer months. Sales volumes are typically higher in the fourth quarter associated with increased dairy consumption, especially fresh cream and creamers, during seasonal holidays. Because certain of our operating expenses are fixed, fluctuations in volumes and revenue from quarter to quarter may have a material effect on operating income for the respective quarters. Intellectual Property We are continually developing new technology and enhancing existing proprietary technology related to our dairy operations. As of December 31, 2010, 16 United States patents have been issued to us and 20 United States patent applications are pending. We primarily rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. Despite these protections, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy, obtain or use certain portions of our proprietary technology or trademarks. Research and Development With our state of the art research and development (R&D) facility, we are building our capabilities through a team of top consumer packaged goods talent across many disciplines such as product development, dairy and plant based science, culinary and sensory science, nutrition, packaging design and engineering, and process engineering. Our R&D activities primarily consist of generating and testing new product concepts, new flavors and packaging. Our total R&D expense was $25.8 million, $25.5 million and $14.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Developments since January 1, 2010 Amendment and Extension of Senior Secured Credit Facility and Receivables Backed Facility On June 30, 2010, we amended and restated our credit agreement governing our $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, our original $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and our original $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The terms of the agreement were modified to extend the maturity date for a portion of the principal amount of the revolving credit facility and term loan A by two years, a portion of term loan B by two years and a portion of term loan B by three years (subject to the condition that we meet one of the required leverage, debt, cash or credit rating tests); amend the maximum permitted leverage ratio; as well as amend certain other terms, including an increase in the undrawn costs of the extended portion of the revolving 8 Table of Contents credit facility and the drawn costs of the extended portions of the revolving credit facility, term loan A and term loan B. Additionally, on June 30, 2010, we amended our receivables backed facility to modify the maximum permitted leverage ratio to be consistent with the senior secured credit facility. The receivables backed facility was also modified to extend the liquidity termination date and to amend certain other terms. On December 9, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility. The terms of the agreement were modified to amend our maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum permitted interest coverage ratio and to add a senior secured leverage ratio to the existing credit facility. Additionally, on December 9, 2010, we amended our receivables backed facility to modify the maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio and to add a senior secured leverage ratio to be consistent with the amended ratios discussed above with respect to the senior secured credit facility. The terms of our receivables purchase agreement were also modified to extend the liquidity termination date and to amend certain other terms. Senior Notes Offering On December 9, 2010, we agreed to sell in a private placement $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 9.75% senior notes due 2018. These notes are our senior unsecured obligations and mature on December 15, 2018 with interest payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2011. On December 16, 2010, the date the senior notes were issued, we used the net proceeds of the offering to pay fees and expenses related to the December 2010 amendment to the senior secured credit facility described above and to repay a portion of our outstanding 2014 tranche A term loan borrowings. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations below regarding our outstanding indebtedness and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a more complete description of the credit facility amendments, receivables backed facility amendments and the $400 million senior notes offering. Competitive Pressures and Consumer Environment As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. The dairy industry has experienced widespread price renegotiations. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. This margin compression is being absorbed by both retailers and dairy processors, which negatively impacts our margins. Also, these industry dynamics continue to drive private label market share gains over branded products, which is impacting the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. With unusually low pricing on private label gallons of fresh fluid milk, our regionally branded products are exposed to significantly wider retail price gaps versus private label products. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and 2010 and intend to continue these efforts over the next three to five years. Defined strategies for network optimization and organizational changes are in process to improve performance and programs have been launched to reduce our total cost to serve and our selling and general and administrative costs. We remain focused on sustaining positive cash flow, and net debt reduction, and we are reinvesting for the future in spite of the current challenging environment for our core dairy business. In addition to these ongoing pressures, additional challenges became more pronounced as 2010 progressed. The continued recessionary environment has resulted in a significant segment of consumers who are cutting back on purchases of even the most essential items, which has had a pronounced impact on the fluid milk category. 9 Table of Contents We have experienced a reduction in volumes in the industry and in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. In addition, our customer base has underperformed their historical growth rates versus their peers which has negatively impacted our total volume growth. We expect this trend to continue in the near term. Conventional Milk Environment Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Divestiture of Non core Dairy Operations During the second quarter of 2010, we committed to a plan to sell the business operations of Rachels, which provides organic branded dairy based chilled yogurt, milk and related dairy products primarily in the United Kingdom. The sale of these operations was completed on August 4, 2010. The decision to sell these operations was part of our strategic growth plan and allows us to target our investments in growing our core dairy and branded businesses by divesting non core businesses. All of our Rachels operations, previously reported within the WhiteWave Alpro segment, have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into two separate agreements to sell our Mountain High and private label yogurt operations, which are part of our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. We expect to recognize a gain related to the sale of both of these operations. On February 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Mountain High yogurt operations. We expect our private label operations sale to close in the first half of 2011. These operations did not meet the requirements to be accounted for as discontinued operations. Management Changes On October 8, 2010, we announced that Harrald F. Kroeker would no longer serve as President of our Fresh Dairy Direct division, effective October 6, 2010. Mr. Kroeker received benefits in accordance with our Executive Severance Pay Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8 K filed on November 19, 2010. We also announced that Christopher Sliva was promoted to Chief Commercial Officer effective October 6, 2010. In this new role, Mr. Sliva has responsibility for directing the commercial strategy of both the Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar divisions sales and lines of business. These management changes are consistent with the recent realignment of our segments to focus on cost and service leadership within the Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. On November 9, 2010, we announced that Jack Callahan would resign his role as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to accept a similar position as Chief Financial Officer of another publicly traded company. We also announced that Shaun P. Mara would succeed Mr. Callahan as our Chief Financial Officer effective December 1, 2010. Mr. Mara began his employment as our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer on June 28, 2010. On November 30, 2010, we terminated the employment of Paul T. Moskowitz, Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Mr. Moskowitz received benefits in accordance with our Executive Severance Pay Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8 K filed on November 19, 2010. On December 9, 2010, we announced the appointment of Scott K. Vopni as our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, effective December 15, 2010. Mr. Vopni had previously served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller since joining us in May of 2008. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In an effort to continue to optimize our distribution network, we closed one facility and announced the closure of another facility within Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar during 2010. Additionally during 2010, we incurred charges related to work force reductions under management and department realignments, and a broad based reduction of facility and distribution personnel and peer benchmarking plans. We recorded facility closing and reorganization costs of $30.8 million in 2010. We 10 Table of Contents will continue to look for areas of opportunity and will likely incur additional costs related to this effort and other initiatives in the near term as we look to transform our business. Vermont Litigation Settlement We have reached an agreement with the plaintiffs in our previously disclosed purported class action antitrust lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont to settle all claims against us in such action. Pursuant to the agreement, which is subject to court approval, we would be obligated to pay $30 million and would agree to other terms and conditions with respect to our raw milk procurement activities at certain of our processing plants located in the Northeast. These other terms and conditions are not expected to have a material impact to our results of operations. We recorded a pre tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2010 of approximately $30 million with respect to the proposed settlement. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had the following employees: No. ofEmployees % ofTotal Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar 22,711 88 % WhiteWave Alpro 2,311 9 Corporate 758 3 Total 25,780 100 % Approximately 37% of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars and 27% of WhiteWave Alpros employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with our employees and these organizations is satisfactory. Government Regulation Food Related Regulations As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations; specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell; and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorizes regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe our facilities and manufacturing practices are in material compliance with all government regulations applicable to our business. 11 Table of Contents Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations applicable to our business. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Our plants use a number of chemicals that are considered to be extremely hazardous substances pursuant to applicable environmental laws due to their toxicity, including ammonia, which is used extensively in our operations as a refrigerant. Such chemicals must be handled in accordance with such environmental laws. Also, on occasion, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels allowed under local regulations. As a result, certain of our facilities are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct wastewater pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We maintain above ground and under ground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. We periodically inspect these tanks to determine whether they are in compliance with applicable regulations and, as a result of such inspections are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to ensure that these tanks remain in compliance. In addition, upon removal of the tanks, we are sometimes required to make expenditures to restore the site in accordance with applicable environmental laws. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that we are in material compliance with the environmental regulations applicable to our business. We do not expect the cost of our continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, cash flows or competitive position in the foreseeable future. In addition, any asset retirement obligations are not material. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk primarily contains raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat and other milk components, and we pay our suppliers for the raw milk based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices vary depending on the processors geographic location or sales area and the type of product manufactured. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class I products such as fluid milk) and Class II raw milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class II products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government the immediately preceding month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also may pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Organic Regulations Our organic products are required to meet the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. These regulations require strict methods of production for organic food products and limit the ability of food processors to use non organic or 12 Table of Contents synthetic materials in the production of organic foods or in the raising of organic livestock. We believe that we are in material compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. Minority Holdings and Other Interests Consolidated Container Company We own an approximately 25% non controlling interest, on a fully diluted basis, in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners, an unaffiliated entity, controls CCC through a majority ownership interest. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control two of the eight seats on CCCs Management Committee. We also have entered into various supply agreements with CCC through December 31, 2011, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. We spent $314.9 million, $268.2 million and $330.3 million on products purchased from CCC during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our relationship with CCC. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), a producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, as a strategic growth platform for both companies to extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and distribution network, as well as the go to market system of WhiteWave. In the second quarter of 2009, the joint venture introduced Fruit2Day to grocery and club store channels in North America. Beginning January 1, 2009, several new agreements, including a capital lease for plant assets constructed within WhiteWaves existing facilities and operating agreements that include the assignment of day to day management responsibilities to WhiteWave, were entered into between WhiteWave and the joint venture. We determined that this, along with the increased risk created by the capital expenditures and favorable lease terms to the joint venture, as well as the benefit the new product line brings to WhiteWaves existing customer relationships, resulted in the decision that WhiteWave was the primary beneficiary of the variable interests. As such, the financial position and the results of operations for the joint venture should be consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the joint venture has been consolidated as of January 1, 2009. The resulting non controlling interests share in the equity of the joint venture is presented as a separate component of stockholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and the net loss attributable to the non controlling interest is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income. During 2010 and 2009, our joint venture partner made cash contributions of $8.0 million and $12.7 million, respectively, and non cash contributions of $0.5 million in 2009 to the joint venture. Our joint venture partner did not make any non cash contributions in 2010. During 2010 and 2009, we made cash contributions of $8.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively, and continued non cash contributions in the form of the capital lease for the manufacturing facility constructed at one of our existing WhiteWave plants. The joint venture has assets of $26.6 million, primarily property, plant and equipment, and liabilities of $3.5 million, which are included within the WhiteWave Alpro segment. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13 Table of Contents You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethics is applicable to all of our employees and directors, with the exception of our Alpro employees, who are subject to a comparable code of ethics. Our Code of Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2711 North Haskell Avenue, Suite 3400 Dallas, Texas 75204 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations Item 1A. Risk Factors Competitive Risks Continued Discounting of Fluid Milk by Large Format Retailers, and the Continued Shift to Private Label, Has Decreased Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re dedicated key shelf space currently occupied by our regionally branded products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. During 2010, retailers continued the trend of discounting their prices on milk to drive value for the end consumer and to increase traffic flow, resulting in lower margins for the retailers. Retailers in turn pushed suppliers for lower prices, which has decreased our margins. In addition, the fluid milk category experienced unusually low pricing on private label milk during 2010, which widened the price gaps between private label and our regional brands. As a result, we are experiencing a continued shift from branded to private label products, which further impacts our profitability. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose these customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a 14 Table of Contents lower cost. Additionally, if we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected by the decrease in margin. Volume Softness in the Dairy Category Has Had a Negative Impact on Our Sales and Profits. Industry wide volume softness across dairy product categories during much of 2010, as compared to 2009, has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the amount of price increases that we can seek to recapture. If these trends continue or accelerate, our business could be further negatively impacted. In addition, during 2010, we experienced a decline in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix. Increased Competition With Our Nationally Branded Products and Economic Conditions Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Profit Margin. Our national brands such as Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic, Land O Lakes and International Delight have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As plant based, organic and coffee enhancing products have gained in popularity with consumers, our products in these categories have attracted competitors, including private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. In addition, our nationally branded products typically have higher marketing costs than our regionally branded or private label products, which could negatively impact the profitability of this segment of our business. In periods of economic decline, consumers tend to purchase lower priced products, including conventional milk, coffee creamers and other private label products, which could reduce sales of our nationally branded products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin for our nationally branded products. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. Some of our nationally branded products compete intensely for consumer spend. If our nationally branded products fail to compete successfully with other branded offerings in the marketplace, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted. The Loss of Any of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sams Club, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2010. During 2010, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 30% of our consolidated net sales. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. We are Subject to Competitive Bidding Situations, the Outcome of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. 15 Table of Contents Commodity Risks Availability of and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Our business is heavily dependent on raw materials such as conventional and organic raw milk, butterfat, diesel fuel, resin and soybeans and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is a large consumer of diesel fuel and WhiteWave Alpro is affected by the costs of petroleum based products through the use of common carriers and packaging. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on market conditions, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather, including the heightened impact of weather events related to climate change, also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. Sometimes supplies of raw materials, such as resin, have been insufficient to meet demand. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials, particularly diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, has adversely affected our profitability as upward price changes often lag changes in costs we charge our customers. In some cases the price increases of these non dairy inputs may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers due to contractual and other limitations. In periods of rapid movements in dairy commodities, our ability to pass through costs is impaired due to the timing of passing through the price increases. These lags and limitations have periodically decreased our profit margins in inflationary markets. In addition, raw material cost fluctuations from year to year can cause our revenues to increase or decrease significantly compared to prior periods. The organic dairy industry is continuing to develop in terms of consumer acceptance and market penetration, and, as a result, continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Industry regulation, and the costs of organic farming compared to prices paid for conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. An oversupply of organic raw milk can cause significant discounting in the sale of organic packaged milk, which increases competitive pressure on our branded products and could cause our profitability to suffer. An undersupply or higher input costs can increase the costs of organic raw milk, which can cause retail price gaps between private label and branded products to expand, potentially decreasing our volumes and adversely affecting our results. The impact of retail price gaps may be compounded by the current economic environment as consumers become increasingly focused on product pricing. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase conventional milk instead of organic milk due to differences in cost, which could further decrease our volumes and results. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.0 billion under our senior secured credit facility, of which $2.6 billion were in term loan borrowings with an additional $453.0 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion senior secured revolving line of credit. In addition, we had $1.0 billion of face value of senior unsecured notes outstanding and nothing outstanding under our receivables backed facility at December 31, 2010. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents In addition, in the current economic climate, investors may be apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2010, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 5.13 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.50 times as of March 31, 2012. Failure to comply with the financial covenants (as defined in our credit agreements), or any other non financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our senior secured leverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Throughout 2010, significant pricing pressures from our retailer customers, as well as volume declines, decreased our operating profitability. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is dependent on our ability to renew our receivables backed facility annually and refinance our senior secured credit facility, portions of which mature beginning in 2012. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Obligations below for more information. The timing, approach, and terms of any such refinancing would depend upon market conditions and managements judgment, among other factors. An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill Could Negatively Impact Our Consolidated Results of Operations and Net Worth. As of December 31, 2010, we had $3.2 billion of goodwill representing approximately 40% of our total assets, of which $2.5 billion was associated with our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment, and $0.7 billion was associated with our WhiteWave Alpro segment. We record goodwill initially at fair value and review its fair value for impairment at least annually, as of December 1, or more frequently if impairment indicators, such as disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating performance or sustained market capitalization declines, are present. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to have a potential impairment and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. However, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered impaired. However, if the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 17 Table of Contents In performing the first step analysis, we calculate the value of goodwill using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as a market approach that reflects market participant views we believe would exist in an exit transaction. For fiscal 2010, our analysis indicates that each of our reporting units has a fair value in excess of its carrying value and no impairment charge will be required; however, the excess of the reporting unit fair values over carrying values, specifically with respect to our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, is significantly less than in prior years. We can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results. In assessing the fair value of our reporting units, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, growth rates, our cost of capital and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying these factors and different assumptions could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a non cash charge, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Costs of Providing Employee Benefits Have Escalated, and Liabilities Under Certain Plans May be Triggered due to Our Actions or the Actions of Others, Which May Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multi employer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Our funded status as of December 31, 2010 decreased by $4.5 million from the prior year end and is still $55.6 million lower than our funded status at December 31, 2007. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multi employer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Network optimization activities, including facility closings, may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans or multi employer plans in which we participate. In addition, certain actions or the financial condition of other companies which participate in multi employer plans may create financial obligations for us, which circumstances are entirely out of our control. Future funding requirements, and related charges, associated with multi employer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Continued Recessionary Economy May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. The continued recessionary economy has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. Higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, or other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn adversely affects our results of operations. There can be no assurances that government responses to the economic downturn will restore consumer confidence. 18 Table of Contents Changes in Our Credit Ratings May Have a Negative Impact on Our Future Financing Costs or the Availability of Capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. During 2010, in response to the decline in our operating results and the difficult dairy operating environment, both Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings downgraded our credit ratings by one level each. Following these actions, our credit ratings continue to be considered below investment grade by the ratings agencies. Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, these recent ratings changes or further downgrades in our credit ratings may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Strategic Growth Plan Risks We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Strategic Growth Plan or Reduce Costs as Expected. We are implementing a strategic growth plan, which includes a number of transformational initiatives, that we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success depends upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. Currently, operating conditions have had negative implications for overall employee compensation, which has increased the risk that we may not be able to retain qualified personnel to carry out our strategies. We continue to implement profit enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and related functions. These initiatives are focused on cost saving opportunities in procurement, distribution, conversion and network optimization. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in large part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. In addition, our failure to achieve anticipated cost savings could lead to an impairment of our goodwill. Product, Supply Chain and Systems Risks We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes, dietary preferences and purchasing habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment, and we may fail to realize anticipated returns on such investments due to lack of consumer acceptance of such products. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we continue to invest in research and development in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global companies with greater resources which compete with us in the health and wellness space. In addition, as consumers become increasingly aware of the environmental and social impacts of the products they purchase their preferences and purchasing decisions may change. If our products fail to meet changing consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our product strategy may not succeed. 19 Table of Contents We May Experience Liabilities or Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Product Issues, Such as Product Recalls. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories such as fluid milk that have strong health and wellness credentials. Disruption of Our Supply Chain or Transportation Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Our Business Operations Could be Disrupted if Our Information Technology Systems Fail to Perform Adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Legal and Regulatory Risks Pending Antitrust Lawsuits May have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are the subject of several antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend and could cause a diversion of managements attention. In some cases, pursuant to statute, damages recoverable by private plaintiffs may be trebled, which could result in a large judgment against us in the event we do not prevail in a trial situation. In addition to increased litigation costs, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and or customer preference for our products. In addition, mergers and acquisitions activities are subject to these antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions. 20 Table of Contents The Dairy Industry in Which We Operate Has Been Subject to Increased Government Scrutiny Which Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are subject to antitrust and other competition laws in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will impact us. Throughout 2010, the dairy industry was the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the current administration initiated a review of existing dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. This review process may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate and that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Litigation or Legal Proceedings Could Expose Us to Significant Liabilities and Have a Negative Impact on Our Reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor Disputes Could Adversely Affect Us. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 37% of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars and 27% of WhiteWave Alpros employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims. Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards, Including Those of Non US Jurisdictions, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. In addition, we have operations outside of the United States which may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and compliance with foreign rules and regulations. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2711 North Haskell Avenue, Suite 3400, Dallas, TX 75204. In addition, we operate more than 100 manufacturing facilities. Management believes that Dean Foods facilities are well maintained and are generally suitable and of sufficient capacity to support our current business operations and that the loss of any single facility would not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. The following tables set forth, by business segment, our principal manufacturing facilities. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar currently conducts its manufacturing operations within the following 95 facilities, most of which are owned: Homewood, Alabama(2) Decatur, Alabama Buena Park, California City of Industry, California(2) Fullerton, California Gustine, California Hayward, California Riverside, California Tulare, California Delta, Colorado Denver, Colorado Englewood, Colorado Greeley, Colorado Newington, Connecticut Deland, Florida Miami, Florida Orlando, Florida Baxley, Georgia Braselton, Georgia Hilo, Hawaii Honolulu, Hawaii Boise, Idaho Belvidere, Illinois Harvard, Illinois Huntley, Illinois OFallon, Illinois Rockford, Illinois Decatur, Indiana Huntington, Indiana Rochester, Indiana LeMars, Iowa Louisville, Kentucky Murray, Kentucky Newport, Kentucky(2) New Orleans, Louisiana Shreveport, Louisiana Bangor, Maine Frederick, Maryland Franklin, Massachusetts Lynn, Massachusetts Mendon, Massachusetts Evart, Michigan Grand Rapids, Michigan Livonia, Michigan Marquette, Michigan Thief River Falls, Minnesota White Bear Lake, Minnesota Woodbury, Minnesota Billings, Montana Great Falls, Montana North Las Vegas, Nevada Reno, Nevada Florence, New Jersey Albuquerque, New Mexico Delhi, New York Friendship, New York Rensselaer, New York High Point, North Carolina Winston Salem, North Carolina Bismarck, North Dakota Tulsa, Oklahoma Marietta, Ohio Springfield, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Erie, Pennsylvania Lansdale, Pennsylvania Lebanon, Pennsylvania Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Spartanburg, South Carolina Sioux Falls, South Dakota Athens, Tennessee Nashville, Tennessee(2) Dallas, Texas(2) El Paso, Texas Houston, Texas Lubbock, Texas McKinney, Texas San Antonio, Texas Sulphur Springs, Texas(2) Waco, Texas Orem, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Richmond, Virginia Springfield, Virginia Ashwaubenon, Wisconsin Richland Center, Wisconsin Sheboygan, Wisconsin Waukesha, Wisconsin The majority of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars manufacturing facilities also serve as distribution facilities. In addition, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars headquarters are located within our corporate headquarters. 22 Table of Contents WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpro currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following 9 facilities, most of which are owned: City of Industry, California Jacksonville, Florida Bridgeton, New Jersey Cedar City, Utah Mt. Crawford, Virginia Wevelgem, Belgium Issenheim, France Landgraaf, Netherlands Northamptonshire, United Kingdom WhiteWave also owns two organic dairy farms located in Paul, Idaho and Kennedyville, Maryland. WhiteWaves headquarters and our research and development facility are located in leased premises in Broomfield, Colorado. Alpros headquarters are located in leased premises in Gent, Belgium. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not party to, nor are our properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, other than as set forth below: We were named, among several defendants, in two purported class action antitrust complaints filed on July 5, 2007. The complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, Columbia Division, and allege generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price Southeastern dairy farmers are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities (dairy farmer actions). A third purported class action antitrust complaint (retailer action) was filed on August 9, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The complaint in the retailer action was amended on March 28, 2008. The amended complaint alleges generally that we, either acting alone or in conjunction with others in the milk industry, lessened competition in the Southeastern United States for the sale of processed fluid Grade A milk to retail outlets and other customers, and that the defendants conduct also artificially inflated wholesale prices for direct milk purchasers. Plaintiffs in both the dairy farmer actions and the retailer action are seeking damages for the alleged violations. If plaintiffs are successful and we are judged to have violated the antitrust laws, plaintiffs are entitled to three times the damages caused by the violations found. Four additional purported class action complaints were filed on August 27, 2007, October 3, 2007, November 15, 2007 and February 13, 2008 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The allegations in these complaints are similar to those in the dairy farmer actions. On January 7, 2008, a United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred all of the pending cases to the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. On April 1, 2008, the Eastern District Court ordered the consolidation of the six dairy farmer actions, and ordered the retailer action to be administratively coordinated with the consolidated dairy farmer actions. A motion to dismiss the dairy farmer actions was denied on May 20, 2008, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed by the dairy farmer plaintiffs on June 20, 2008. A motion to dismiss the retailer action was denied on July 27, 2009. Motions for class certification were filed in both actions on May 1, 2009. The motion for class certification in the dairy farmer action was granted on September 7, 2010. A petition seeking leave to appeal that decision was filed with the Sixth Circuit on September 21, 2010 and is currently pending. The motion for class certification in the retailer action is still pending. A motion for summary judgment in the retailer action was granted in part and denied in part on August 4, 2010. Defendants filed a motion for reconsideration on September 10, 2010, and filed a supplemental motion for summary judgment as to the remaining claims on September 27, 2010. Those motions are currently pending before the court. A motion for summary judgment in the dairy farmer action was filed on July 27, 2010 and remains pending. Fact discovery and expert discovery are complete in these matters, and expert reports have been submitted. Presently, trial in the dairy farmer action is scheduled to begin in June 2011. If the Sixth Circuit grants the petition to appeal the class certification motion, we expect that the trial will be postponed. We intend to continue to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. 23 Table of Contents On June 29, 2009, another purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division, on behalf of indirect purchasers of processed fluid Grade A milk (indirect purchaser action). The allegations in this complaint are similar to those in the retailer action, but primarily involve state law claims. Because the allegations in this complaint substantially overlap with the allegations in the retailer action, on September 1, 2009, the Court granted the parties joint motion to stay all proceedings in the indirect purchaser action pending the outcome of the summary judgment motions in the retailer action. On October 8, 2009, we were named, among several defendants, in a purported class action antitrust complaint filed in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont. The original complaint was amended on January 21, 2010, and contained allegations similar in nature to that of the dairy farmer actions (noted above), and alleges generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price dairy farmers in the Northeastern United States are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities. A second similar complaint was filed by a different plaintiff on January 14, 2010. The Company has reached an agreement with the plaintiffs to settle all claims against the Company in this action. The settlement agreement is subject to court approval, and multiple motions related to the settlement agreement are currently pending before the court. There can be no assurance that the court will approve the agreement as proposed by the parties. Pursuant to the agreement the Company would be obligated to pay $30 million, and would agree to other terms and conditions with respect to its raw milk procurement activities at certain of its processing plants located in the Northeast. On January 22, 2010, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the States of Wisconsin, Illinois and Michigan (Plaintiff States) filed a civil action in the Eastern District of Wisconsin (DOJ lawsuit) alleging that the Company violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act when it acquired the Consumer Products Division of Foremost Farms USA on April 1, 2009 (the acquisition) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $35 million. The DOJ and the Plaintiff States seek a declaration that the acquisition violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, divestiture by the Company of all assets and interests it acquired as part of the acquisition, an order permanently enjoining the Company from further ownership and operation of the assets that were part of the acquisition, and to compel the Company to provide certain advance notification of future acquisitions involving school milk or fluid milk processing operations. A motion to partially dismiss the DOJ lawsuit was denied on April 7, 2010. This matter is currently in the fact discovery stage. The Company intends to vigorously defend against this action. On April 28, 2009, a stockholder derivative complaint was filed purportedly on behalf of Dean Foods Company (the Company) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville division. The complaint names the Companys then current directors, as well an officer of the Company, and a former director among the defendants. The complaint alleges that the officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Company under Delaware law by approving the 2001 merger between the former Dean Foods Company and Suiza Foods Corporation, and allegedly participating in, or failing to prevent, a purported conspiracy to fix the price of Grade A milk. The complaint also names others in the milk industry as defendants for allegedly aiding and abetting the officers and directors breach of their fiduciary duties and names the Company as a nominal defendant. The plaintiffs are seeking, on behalf of the Company, an undisclosed amount of damages and equitable relief. On August 7, 2009, the Company and other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and a motion to transfer the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The defendants motion to transfer the case was granted on March 31, 2010. On September 14, 2010, the Court granted the motion to dismiss this matter. The plaintiffs subsequently filed an amended complaint, and the Company and the other defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On January 26, 2011, the Court granted a motion to dismiss the amended complaint and entered a judgment dismissing the case with predjudice. On January 18, 2008, our subsidiary, Kohler Mix Specialties, LLC (Kohler), was named as a defendant in a civil complaint filed in the Superior Court, Judicial District of Hartford. The plaintiff in the case is the Commissioner of Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut. The complaint alleges generally that 24 Table of Contents Kohler improperly discharged wastewater in to the waters of the State of Connecticut, and bypassed certain wastewater treatment equipment in violation of certain Connecticut environmental regulations and Kohlers wastewater discharge permit. The plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties with respect to the claims. On December 14, 2009, Kohler filed its answer to the complaint. This matter is currently in the fact discovery stage. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters set forth above. Other than the matters set forth above, we are party from time to time to certain claims, litigations, audits and investigations. Potential liabilities associated with the other matters referred to in this paragraph are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other We are in discussions with numerous states, most but not all of whom have appointed an agent to conduct an examination of our books and records to determine whether we have complied with state unclaimed property laws. In addition to seeking remittance of unclaimed property, some states may also seek interest and penalties. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of these potential examinations. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DF. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At February 18, 2011, there were 4,241 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2009: First Quarter $ 21.13 $ 17.83 Second Quarter 20.70 17.61 Third Quarter 21.92 17.60 Fourth Quarter 19.65 15.90 2010: First Quarter 18.53 14.46 Second Quarter 16.89 9.57 Third Quarter 12.00 9.49 Fourth Quarter 10.80 7.26 We have not historically declared or paid a regular cash dividend on our common stock. We have no current plans to pay a cash dividend in the future. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior secured credit facility, including terms restricting the payment of dividends. Stock Repurchases Since 1998, our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized the repurchase of our common stock up to an aggregate of $2.3 billion, excluding fees and expenses. We made no share repurchases in 2010 or 2009 and do not intend to make any repurchases for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, $218.7 million was available for repurchases under this program (excluding fees and commissions). Shares, when repurchased, are retired. 26 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2010 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales $ 12,122,887 $ 11,113,782 $ 12,361,311 $ 11,731,870 $ 10,011,018 Cost of sales 9,116,965 8,008,561 9,438,593 9,015,216 7,290,290 Gross profit(1) 3,005,922 3,105,221 2,922,718 2,716,654 2,720,728 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,904,526 1,818,833 1,802,214 1,708,594 1,636,825 General and administrative 629,656 623,835 482,392 415,694 405,985 Amortization of intangibles 11,295 9,637 9,836 6,744 5,983 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30,761 30,162 22,758 34,421 25,116 Other expense(2) 30,000 1,688 Total operating costs and expenses 2,606,238 2,482,467 2,317,200 2,167,141 2,073,909 Operating income 399,684 622,754 605,518 549,513 646,819 Other (income) expense: Interest expense(3)(6) 248,301 246,510 308,178 333,328 194,630 Other (income) expense, net(8) 161 (4,221 ) 1,123 5,956 429 Total other expense 248,462 242,289 309,301 339,284 195,059 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 151,222 380,465 296,217 210,229 451,760 Income taxes 73,482 151,845 114,330 82,862 174,376 Income from continuing operations 77,740 228,620 181,887 127,367 277,384 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 7,521 89 (1,275 ) 608 (1,978 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (2,505 ) (862 ) 3,158 3,378 (49,992 ) Net income 82,756 227,847 183,770 131,353 225,414 Net loss attributable to non controlling interest 8,735 12,461 Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 91,491 $ 240,308 $ 183,770 $ 131,353 $ 225,414 Cash dividend paid per share $ $ $ $ 15.00 $ Basic earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 0.50 $ 1.41 $ 1.23 $ 1.01 $ 1.68 Diluted earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 0.50 $ 1.38 $ 1.20 $ 0.96 $ 1.61 Average common shares: Basic 181,799,306 170,986,886 149,266,519 130,310,811 133,938,777 Diluted 182,861,802 173,858,303 153,395,746 137,291,998 139,762,104 Other data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(4) 1.50 x 2.26 x 1.81 x 1.55 x 2.85 x Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 7,956,667 $ 7,843,941 $ 7,040,192 $ 7,033,356 $ 6,770,173 Long term debt(5)(6) 4,067,525 4,228,979 4,489,251 5,272,351 3,355,851 Other long term liabilities 351,645 393,575 411,991 320,181 238,682 Non controlling interest 14,543 15,286 Dean Foods Company stockholders equity(6)(7) 1,499,525 1,351,946 558,234 51,267 1,809,399 27 Table of Contents (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. (2) Results for 2010 include a charge of $30.0 million related to a class action antitrust complaint settlement (see Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding this charge) and 2007 includes a loss of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our tofu business. (3) Results for 2010 include charges totaling $12.3 million in financing costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and December 9, 2010. Additionally, results for 2007 include a charge of $13.5 million to write off financing costs related to the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility. (4) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (5) Includes the current portion of long term debt. (6) In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering which were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet with the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record as of March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. (7) Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. As a result, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. The balance at December 31, 2006 reflects a $14.8 million reduction related to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The reduction had no impact on net income. (8) Results for 2009 include a gain of $4.2 million related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Results for 2007 include charges of $4.5 million for professional fees and other costs related to the second quarter special cash dividend. 28 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. WhiteWave Alpro markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, as well as other plant based beverages and soy food products, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages such as soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. Our Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. In the first quarter of 2010, our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker, changed the way he evaluates the performance of our operations, develops strategy and allocates capital resources. As a result, beginning in the first quarter of 2010, our Morningstar operations were aligned with our Fresh Dairy Direct operations, so that our two reporting segments consisted of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. This change reflects the divergence between the strategies and objectives of these two segments. Our value added branded operations at WhiteWave Alpro added scale with the acquisition of Alpro in July 2009 and are focused on driving growth through effective marketing and innovation. Our traditional dairy operations at Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are driven by a focus on cost and service leadership. We believe these revised segments have increased internal focus and offered management and investors improved visibility into the performance of the segments against their specific objectives. All segment results set forth herein have been recast to present results on a comparable basis. These changes had no impact on consolidated net sales or operating income. During the second quarter of 2010, we committed to a plan to sell the business operations of Rachels, which provides organic branded dairy based chilled yogurt, milk and related dairy products primarily in the United Kingdom. The sale of these operations was completed on August 4, 2010. The decision to sell these operations was part of our strategic growth plan and allows us to target our investments in growing our core dairy and branded businesses by divesting non core operations. All Rachels operations, previously reported within the WhiteWave Alpro segment, have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless stated otherwise, any reference to income statement items in these financial statements refers to results from continuing operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into two separate agreements to sell our Mountain High and private label yogurt operations, which are part of our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. We expect to recognize a gain related to the sale of both of these operations. On February 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Mountain High yogurt operations. We expect our private label operations sale to close in the first half of 2011. These operations did not meet the requirements to be accounted for as discontinued operations. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is our largest segment, with approximately 84% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, ice cream, cultured dairy products, creamers, ice cream mix and other dairy products, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature 29 Table of Contents of its products, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by a centralized corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins fragmentation and lack of network optimization. According to the USDA, per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline. Volume sales growth across the industry has declined recently. The continued recessionary environment has resulted in a significant segment of consumers who are cutting back on purchases of even the most essential items, which has had a pronounced impact on the fluid milk category. We have experienced a reduction in volumes in the industry and in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar business. We expect this trend to continue in the near term. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. This margin compression is being absorbed by both retailers and dairy processors. These industry dynamics have driven private label market share gains over branded products, which is impacting the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. With unusually low pricing on private label gallons, our regionally branded products are exposed to significantly wider retail price gaps versus private label. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. In addition to these industry dynamics, we have faced challenges with our conventional milk costs as well. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and 2010 and intend to continue these efforts over the next three to five years. Defined strategies for network optimization and organizational changes are in process to improve performance and programs have been launched to reduce our total selling, general, and administrative costs. We remain focused on sustaining positive cash flow, net debt reduction and are reinvesting for the future in spite of the current challenging environment. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpros net sales were approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. WhiteWave Alpro manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy milk, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages including soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and 30 Table of Contents Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products primarily through its internal sales force and independent brokers. The majority of the WhiteWave Alpro products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWave Alpro has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on brand recognition and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Alpro pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy, other plant based and organic beverages and foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits attributable to these products, and we believe WhiteWave Alpro has a leading position in the these category. Recent Developments See Part I Item 1. Business Developments Since January 1, 2010 for recent developments that have impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,122.9 100.0 % $ 11,113.8 100.0 % $ 12,361.3 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,117.0 75.2 8,008.6 72.1 9,438.6 76.4 Gross profit(1) 3,005.9 24.8 3,105.2 27.9 2,922.7 23.6 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,904.5 15.7 1,818.8 16.4 1,802.2 14.6 General and administrative 629.6 5.2 623.8 5.6 482.4 3.9 Amortization of intangibles 11.3 0.1 9.6 0.1 9.8 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30.8 0.3 30.2 0.3 22.8 0.2 Other expense 30.0 0.2 Total operating costs and expenses 2,606.2 21.5 2,482.4 22.4 2,317.2 18.8 Operating income $ 399.7 3.3 % $ 622.8 5.5 % $ 605.5 4.8 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. 31 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2010 2009 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 10,184.9 $ 9,480.8 $ 704.1 7.4 % WhiteWave Alpro 1,938.0 1,633.0 305.0 18.7 Total $ 12,122.9 $ 11,113.8 $ 1,009.1 9.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 157.7 $ (365.7 ) $ 912.1 $ 704.1 WhiteWave Alpro 172.7 106.9 25.4 305.0 Total $ 330.4 $ (258.8 ) $ 937.5 $ 1,009.1 Net sales Consolidated net sales increased $1.0 billion during 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs, acquisitions and an increase in sales volumes of our branded products, particularly International Delight, Horizon Organic and Silk. These increases were partially offset by highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as lower sales volumes across all categories in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales increased $1.1 billion, or 13.8%, in 2010 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher commodity prices, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, offset by lower overall volumes in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of 2009 that continued throughout 2010. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $123.8 million, or 5.0%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $85.7 million driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $36.0 million related to Alpro, higher freight and fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs and related distribution costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such outside storage costs to decrease in 2011 as we realize additional capacity as a result of our capital expenditures at WhiteWave. These increases were partly offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $5.8 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $24.5 million for Alpro, and higher consulting fees, offset by lower employee related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. 32 Table of Contents Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $0.6 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other expense represents a $30.0 million charge related to a pending class action antitrust settlement (see Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding this charge). Other (Income) Expense Excluding $12.3 million in financing costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and December 9, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.5 million from the prior year, primarily due to lower average debt balances, lower interest rates during the first six months of 2010 and the expiration of $800 million notional amounts of fixed interest rate swap agreements in the first quarter of 2010. In 2009 we recorded a $4.2 million gain related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. We expect to see an increase in interest expense in 2011 as a result of higher average interest rates, due to the June 30, 2010 credit facility amendment and the December 16, 2010 senior notes issuance. This higher interest expense will be slightly offset by expected lower average debt balances resulting from free cash flow generation and the net proceeds from the sale of our Mountain High and private label yogurt businesses, as well as the expiration of certain of our fixed interest rate swap agreements. The sale of our Mountain High business closed February 1, 2011, and we expect to close the sale of our private label yogurt business in the first half of 2011. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 48.6% for 2010 compared to 39.9% in 2009. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. Additionally, in 2010, we identified unrecoverable deferred tax asset balances associated with errors primarily related to periods prior to 2007. Since the effects of the errors are not material to the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2010 and were not material to any individual year prior to 2010, we adjusted our deferred tax assets and recorded a non cash income tax charge of $10.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of this correction, the effective tax rate for 2010 was 41.4%, which was higher than 2009 primarily as a result of lower net earnings. Our 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates were both negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 10,184.9 100.0 % $ 9,480.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,873.3 77.3 6,961.4 73.4 Gross profit 2,311.6 22.7 2,519.4 26.6 Operating costs and expenses 1,807.1 17.7 1,762.7 18.6 Total operating income $ 504.5 5.0 % $ 756.7 8.0 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales increased $704.1 million, or 7.4%, during 2010 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs and the impact of acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by the impact of highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as overall volume declines across all product categories. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy has driven material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price 33 Table of Contents points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Beginning in 2009 and throughout 2010, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions, which were originally absorbed by retailers. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2010 compared to 2009: Year Ended December 31* 2010 2009 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 15.35 $ 11.48 33.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 9.26 7.40 25.1 Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.83 1.24 47.6 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 9.85 7.09 38.9 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.86 1.26 47.6 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales increased $911.9 million, or 13.1%, in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, slightly offset by lower personnel costs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin decreased to 22.7% in 2010 from 26.6% in 2009. Gross margins trended downward due to the increasingly intense competitive environment we have experienced. In addition to the increasing demands to absorb pricing concessions, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, exacerbated by weak volumes across dairy and non dairy product offerings, further impacting profitability. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers as well as our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. 34 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $44.4 million, or 2.5%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $28.2 million, primarily driven by increased fuel and freight costs. These costs were offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management, as well as benefits from efficiencies gained in our distribution network with route reductions and lower fuel usage. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $15.2 million due to an increase in supply chain management and higher consulting fees, offset by lower personnel related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,938.0 100.0 % $ 1,633.0 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,242.7 64.1 1,058.2 64.8 Gross profit 695.3 35.9 574.8 35.2 Operating costs and expenses 529.1 27.3 444.5 27.2 Total operating income $ 166.2 8.6 % $ 130.3 8.0 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $305.0 million, or 18.7%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong volume growth in our branded products. Excluding the impact of our Alpro acquisition, net sales increased $132.3 million, or 8.1%. Sales for the creamers business, which includes both International Delight and LAND O LAKES, grew low double digits compared to 2009. Horizon Organic brand sales also grew low double digits while Silk brand sales grew high single digits compared to the prior year. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $184.5 million, or 17.4%, in 2010 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by a $92.9 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition higher sales volumes and higher input costs. Gross Profit WhiteWave Alpros gross profit increased to 35.9% in 2010 from 35.2% in 2009, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition, strong volume growth, a favorable brand mix, as well as benefits from productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $84.6 million, or 19.0%, during 2010 compared to 2009. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses are summarized below: Selling and distribution costs increased $50.1 million, driven by a $36.0 million increase due to the Alpro acquisition, volume growth and higher fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such costs to remain at higher levels as we work to add additional production and storage capacity. General and administrative costs increased $33.8 million, primarily driven by a $24.5 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition. 35 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2009 2008 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 9,480.8 $ 10,924.4 $ (1,443.6 ) (13.2 )% WhiteWave Alpro 1,633.0 1,436.9 196.1 13.6 Total $ 11,113.8 $ 12,361.3 $ (1,247.5 ) (10.1 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 159.0 $ (61.2 ) $ (1,541.4 ) $ (1,443.6 ) WhiteWave Alpro 176.4 (31.2 ) 50.9 196.1 Total $ 335.4 $ (92.4 ) $ (1,490.5 ) $ (1,247.5 ) Net sales decreased $1.2 billion during 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower pricing in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment, as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Net sales in our WhiteWave Alpro segment increased as the Alpro acquisition more than offset the impact of the pass through of lower commodity costs to customers and slightly lower sales volume, coupled with the exit of several business relationships. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales decreased $1.4 billion, or 15.2%, in 2009 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued favorable commodity prices, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network. Overall, commodity prices remained low compared to 2008 levels. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $165.2 million, or 7.1%, during the year compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: General and administrative costs increased $141.4 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and investments in the capability build out of our supply chain, information technology and research and development functions that are foundational to our strategies; higher personnel related costs including incentive based compensation, share based compensation expense and additional headcount; higher professional fees and other outside services primarily related to our strategic initiatives, as well as higher transaction related costs. Selling and distribution costs increased $16.6 million driven by an increase in marketing spend, especially in the fourth quarter, on our nationally branded products at WhiteWave, higher expenses attributable to our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture and the impact of our recent Alpro acquisition, partially offset by lower fuel costs and benefits from our strategic initiatives across our distribution network. Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $7.4 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. 36 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $246.5 million in 2009 from $308.2 million in 2008, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates during 2009 compared to the prior year. Additionally, in 2009, a $4.2 million gain was recognized related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.9% for 2009 compared to 38.6% in 2008. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,480.8 100.0 % $ 10,924.4 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,961.4 73.4 8,480.7 77.6 Gross profit 2,519.4 26.6 2,443.7 22.4 Operating costs and expenses 1,762.7 18.6 1,762.7 16.2 Total operating income $ 756.7 8.0 % $ 681.0 6.2 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales decreased 13.2% during 2009 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower pricing as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Recent acquisitions and solid execution drove higher fluid milk sales volumes of approximately 2.7%, which were more than offset by lower sales volumes in other products for an overall volume decline of 0.6%. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2009 compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31* 2009 2008 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.48 $ 18.00 (36.2 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 7.40 12.94 (42.8 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.24 1.57 (21.0 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 7.09 11.13 (36.3 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.26 1.57 (19.7 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges 37 Table of Contents that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales decreased $1.5 billion, or 17.9%, in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to favorable commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network, slightly offset by higher personnel related costs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin increased to 26.6% in 2009 from 22.4% in 2008. Despite an overall increase on a year over year basis, the gross margin trended downward as 2009 progressed driven by the increasing intense competitive environment we experienced. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy drove material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Initially, this margin compression was absorbed by retailers, but as the year progressed, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions. In addition, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, further impacting profitability. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses were relatively flat during the year compared to prior year. Distribution costs declined due to relatively lower fuel costs and strategic initiatives across our distribution network which was offset by higher professional fees primarily related to strategic initiatives, particularly supply chain and information technology, increased advertising expenses as well as higher personnel related costs. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,633.0 100.0 % $ 1,436.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,058.2 64.8 961.1 66.9 Gross profit 574.8 35.2 475.8 33.1 Operating costs and expenses 444.5 27.2 363.3 25.3 Total operating income $ 130.3 8.0 % $ 112.5 7.8 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $196.1 million, or 13.6%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong sales growth in our creamers business, partially offset by the impact of certain businesses exited during 2009. 38 Table of Contents Throughout 2009, we experienced continued softness in the organic milk category. We believe milk consumers were price sensitive to premium priced categories, including organic products due to the recessionary environment. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $97.1 million in 2009 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and continued lower commodity costs, partially offset by the impact of lower sales volumes, driven by the exited businesses, and the impact of our productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $81.2 million during 2009 compared to 2008, driven by the Alpro acquisition and higher marketing spending driven principally by the launch year marketing investments related to the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. These increases were partially offset by productivity initiatives which impacted distribution costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources General We believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our amended and restated $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, which we expect to renew under similar 364 day terms at the end of the current term, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to meet our future cash requirements. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. At December 31, 2010, we had $4.1 billion of outstanding debt obligations, cash on hand of $92.0 million and an additional $1.4 billion of combined available future borrowing capacity under our existing senior secured revolving credit facility and receivables backed facility. Of this combined amount, based on our outstanding indebtedness and the maximum permitted leverage ratio in effect at December 31, 2010, and assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances, our then current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. 39 Table of Contents Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Change (In thousands) Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 525,700 $ 658,079 $ (132,379 ) Investing activities (293,575 ) (840,068 ) 546,493 Financing activities (217,692 ) 192,765 (410,457 ) Discontinued operations (operating and investing) 32,886 1,950 30,936 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (502 ) 808 (1,310 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 46,817 $ 13,534 $ 33,283 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 mainly due to the impact of lower net earnings. In addition, fluctuations in our working capital resulted in an overall decrease in cash driven by a decrease in the source of cash from accounts receivable, which was partially offset by a reduction in the use of cash for accounts payable. During 2009, accounts receivable balances declined significantly due to the pass through of declining commodity prices. During 2010, accounts receivable balances remained relatively stable. Additionally, income tax payments were $150.7 million lower in 2010 compared to 2009 due to accelerated tax deductions and lower earnings. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2010 primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, which was partially offset by higher payments for capital expenditures. During 2010, no cash was used for acquisitions compared to $581.2 million used in 2009, primarily for the acquisition of Alpro, as well as other smaller acquisitions. In 2010, we funded $302.0 million in capital expenditures compared to $267.7 million in 2009 primarily in connection with the capital investments under our strategy to optimize the fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2010 primarily due to debt repayments and deferred financing costs as a result of costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility. In 2009 we issued 25.4 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of $444.7 million. 40 Table of Contents Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of an original combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. As described more fully in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we amended and restated the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and further amended this agreement on December 9, 2010. The terms of the agreement were modified in the aggregate as follows: Extension of the maturity dates for certain principal amounts as summarized in the key terms table below; Amendment of the maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in our credit agreement) to permit minimum and maximum ratios of: For Quarters Ending During the Period Minimum InterestCoverage Ratio Maximum LeverageRatio Maximum SeniorSecured LeverageRatio Amendment effective date December 31, 2011 2.50 5.75 4.25 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2012 2.75 5.50 3.75 March 31, 2013 June 30, 2013 3.00 5.25 3.50 September 30, 2013 and thereafter 3.00 4.50 3.50 Amendment of certain other terms, including, but not limited to, leverage based limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, acquisitions and prepayments of senior notes; and Increase in the undrawn costs of the extended portion of the revolving credit facility and the drawn costs of the extended portions of the revolving credit facility, term loan A and term loan B. The following table summarizes the key terms of the senior secured credit facility as of December 31, 2010: Principal(2) MaturityDate Applicable BaseRate Margin(3) ApplicableLIBOR RateMargin(3) QuarterlyCommitment Feeon UndrawnAmounts Revolving Credit Facility $225 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% 0.125% 0.375% $1.28 billion April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% 0.375% 0.500% Term Loan A $150 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% $695 million April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% Term Loan B $687 million April 2, 2014 0.375% 0.75% 1.375% 1.75% $490 million April 2, 2016 2.00% 2.25% 3.00% 3.25% $558 million April 2, 2017(1) 2.25% 2.50% 3.25% 3.50% (1) Subject to the condition that we meet certain leverage, debt, cash or credit rating tests following December 31, 2015. However, if at least one of these tests is not met, the maturity date will be April 2, 2016. (2) Amounts for term loan A and term loan B represent outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2010. The revolving credit facility principal amount represents the total original borrowings available to us under the facility. (3) The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. 41 Table of Contents Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we were engaged as of April 2007, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million and not greater than $100 million if our leverage ratio is greater than 4.50 times, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our leverage ratio is below 4.50 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. Our leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 5.13 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters was 5.75 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. As described in more detail in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Our interest coverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.45 times consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters. The minimum permitted interest coverage ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters was 2.50 times as of December 31, 2010 and increases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated interest expense is comprised of consolidated interest expense paid or payable in cash, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but excluding non cash losses from foreign exchange translations or swap agreements and third party fees and expenses related to acquisitions, investments, dispositions and the incurrence or early extinguishment of indebtedness. Additionally, the December 9, 2010 amendment of our credit agreement resulted in the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio, as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.80 times consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted 42 Table of Contents senior secured leverage ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters allowed was 4.25 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the leverage ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding senior secured indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the senior secured leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants, and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance for the foreseeable future. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels, except as described above with respect to determining the maturity date of the 2017 tranche of term loan B. At December 31, 2010, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.0 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.6 billion at December 31, 2009), which consisted of $2.6 billion in term loan borrowings and $453 million under the revolver. The decrease of $563 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to the prepayment of approximately $384 million in outstanding 2014 Term Loan A borrowings as a result of the Senior Notes Offering discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, quarterly payments on our term loan A and term loan B, and a lower outstanding balance on our revolver borrowings at December 31, 2010 in comparison to December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, there were $171.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 24, 2011, $106.2 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Receivables backed Facility In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million 364 day receivables backed facility in which current availability is subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. This facility is scheduled to mature September 30, 2011, and we intend and expect to renew the facility at the end of the current term under similar terms currently established. As of December 31, 2010, the receivables backed facility had $496.5 million available, of which zero was drawn. Our average daily balance under this facility during 2010 was $175.3 million. At February 24, 2011, $339.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Senior Notes & Capital Leases Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2010 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2016, $400 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2018, $142 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes due 2017 and $7.7 million of capital lease and other obligations. Alpro Revolving Credit Facility On July 2, 2009, our newly acquired subsidiary, Alpro N.V. entered into a two year multi currency revolving credit facility for borrowings in an amount not to exceed 20 million (or its currency equivalent). In December, 2009, we reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 10 million (or its currency equivalent) and in December 2010, we further reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 1 million (or its currency equivalent). The facility is unsecured and is guaranteed by Dean Foods Company and 43 Table of Contents various Alpro N.V. subsidiaries. Use of proceeds under the facility is for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Alpro N.V. The subsidiary revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to 1 million of letters of credit. No principal payments are due under the subsidiary revolving credit facility until maturity on July 2, 2011. At December 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. Contractual Obligations and Other Long Term Liabilities In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase, lease and other contractual obligations at December 31, 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Payments Due by Period Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,033.5 $ 167.5 $ 290.5 $ 231.7 $ 1,337.7 $ 10.5 $ 995.6 Dean Foods Company senior notes(1) 900.0 900.0 Subsidiary senior notes(1) 142.0 142.0 Capital lease obligations and other 7.7 6.7 0.6 0.4 Purchase obligations(2) 1,007.3 635.4 175.4 112.0 14.8 14.3 55.4 Operating leases 502.1 123.0 98.2 78.2 62.0 46.5 94.2 Interest payments(3) 1,032.9 242.1 194.2 170.9 130.2 118.5 177.0 Benefit payments(4) 325.1 22.3 21.0 21.5 22.1 21.3 216.9 Litigation settlement(5) 30.0 30.0 Total(6) $ 6,980.6 $ 1,227.0 $ 779.9 $ 614.7 $ 1,566.8 $ 211.1 $ 2,581.1 (1) Represents face value. (2) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (3) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on our interest rate swaps based on the notional amounts of the swaps and the LIBOR forward curve at December 31, 2010 and interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2010. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Future interest payments on our interest rate swaps will vary based on the interest rates in effect at each respective settlement date. Excluded from the table above are expected cash receipts related to the interest rate swaps. (4) Represents expected future benefit obligations of $307.5 million and $17.6 million related to our pension plans and postretirement healthcare plans, respectively. (5) Represents the agreement to settle all claims in a class action antitrust complaint reached in the fourth quarter of 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the agreement. (6) The table above excludes our liability for uncertain tax positions of $58.2 million because the timing of any related cash payments cannot be reasonably estimated. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted 44 Table of Contents by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In 2010 and 2009, we made contributions of $10.3 million and $24.5 million, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2010, we recorded non cash pension expense of $13.0 million, of which $11.3 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $21.1 million in 2009, of which $20.2 million was attributable to periodic expense and $0.9 million was attributable to settlements. Almost 90% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.00% at December 31, 2009 to 5.28% at December 31, 2010, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2011. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. In July 2009, the Investment Committee adopted a new long term investment policy for the master trust that decreases the expected relative holdings of equity securities that targets investments in equity securities at 59% of the portfolio, fixed income at 37%, cash equivalents at 3% and other investments of 1%. At December 31, 2010, our master trust was invested as follows: investments in equity securities were at 62%; investments in fixed income were at 34%; cash equivalents were at less than 1% and other investments were at 4%. Given meaningful equity returns in the fourth quarter of 2010, these investment percentages were slightly different from the Investment Committee targets noted above, and we rebalanced our master trust investments accordingly during the first quarter of 2011 in order to be consistent with those targets. See Notes 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas (DFA) 33.8% interest in our operations. In connection with that transaction, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to DFA in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is a primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may 45 Table of Contents prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our related milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not terminated, and we have not materially breached, any of our related milk supply agreements with DFA related to the promissory note. We have previously terminated unrelated supply agreements with respect to several plants that were supplied by DFA. In connection with our goals of accelerated cost control and increased supply chain efficiency, we continue to evaluate our sources of raw milk supply. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2011, we intend to invest a total of approximately $325 to $350 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities under our strategy to optimize our fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs and to increase production capacity at WhiteWave Alpro to meet demand. We expect cash interest to be approximately $246 million to $254 million based upon current debt levels and projected forward interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $15 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $174.3 million. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to meeting certain terms and conditions as outlined in our credit agreements. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio of 4.25 times and maximum leverage ratio of 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2010, the senior secured leverage ratio was 3.80 times and the leverage ratio was 5.13 times. The maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio and leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 3.75 times and 5.50 times, respectively, as of March 31, 2012. These reduced leverage ratio requirements could limit our ability to incur additional debt. At December 31, 2010, $496.5 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $875.7 million also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Availability under the receivables backed facility is calculated using the current receivables balance for the seller entities, less adjustments for vendor concentration limits, reserve requirements, and other adjustments as described in the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement. Availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility is calculated using the total commitment amount less current borrowings and issued and outstanding letters of credit. Assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, of this combined amount, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 24, 2011, approximately $1.3 billion was available under the 46 Table of Contents receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Of this combined amount, assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, approximately $492 million was available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars products is conventional milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). In general, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar changes the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases, primarily with respect to diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 90% of our organic raw milk from a network of more than 550 family dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to five years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry regularly experiences significant swings in supply and demand based on consumer economic factors. Retail price increases on private label products generally lag that of branded products, causing retail price gaps to expand. Such gaps can create challenges where increasing costs of food and energy drive up the cost of organic milk faster than retail prices can be increased. During 2010, we experienced increased demand for our organic products particularly our Horizon Organic brand, and we have taken actions to meet the rising demand. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply, and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. 47 Table of Contents Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we began augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with nonGenetically Modified Organism (non GMO) soybeans. The launch of these new products has shifted a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. Fuel and Resin Costs Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases diesel fuel to operate its extensive DSD system and incurs fuel surcharge expense related to the products it delivers through third party carriers. WhiteWave Alpro primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Another significant raw material we use is resin, which is a fossil fuel based product used to make plastic bottles. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. In 2010, we have experienced a sharp increase in the price of resin, particularly during the fourth quarter of 2010. The prices of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. We expect that fuel and resin costs will continue to fluctuate throughout 2011. Competitive Environment Supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. During 2010, this margin compression was increasingly absorbed by dairy processors. Also, these industry dynamics continue to drive private label market share gains over branded products, which impacted the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. These pressures have been exacerbated by volume declines across dairy and non dairy product categories. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. Margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. Additionally, there has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, competition has intensified as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. Currently, the dairy industry has experienced widespread price renegotiations. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. 48 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates In certain circumstances, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates, as well as our critical accounting policies (see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets result primarily from acquisitions and primarily include trademarks with finite lives and indefinite lives and customer related intangible assets. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that the carrying value is recoverable. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed our annual impairment testing using the methods described above and did not record an impairment charge. Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to initially value intangible assets upon acquisition and to evaluate those assets and goodwill for impairment going forward. We determine fair value using widely acceptable valuation techniques including discounted cash flows, market multiples analyses and relief from royalty analyses. Assumptions used in our valuations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. We believe that the assumptions used in valuing our intangible assets and in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in different calculations of fair values that could result in a material impairment charge. The fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds its related carrying value by approximately $229 million or 6.4%, $367 million or 65.1%, $856 million or 80.4% and $33 million or 7.8% for Fresh Dairy Direct, Morningstar, WhiteWave and Alpro, respectively. Increasing our discount rates assumed in these analyses by 0.25% would not have resulted in an impairment charge. The terminal growth rates utilized in calculating the fair value of our reporting units (ranging from 1.8% to 3.5%) is dependent upon meeting our internal projections and operating plans, as well as other factors and assumptions. A 0.25% reduction in the terminal growth rate assumptions used could result in a material impairment charge. While the results of our testing indicate that each of our reporting units has a fair value in excess of its carrying value and no impairment charge was required, the excess of the reporting unit fair values over carrying values, specifically with 49 Table of Contents Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ respect to our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, is significantly less than in prior years. While testing results do not indicate an impairment charge, we can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results or our assumptions. Property, Plant and Equipment We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Our property, plant and equipment totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Self Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. At December 31, 2010 we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $187.3 million, including both current and long term liabilities. During 2010, we reduced our property and casualty insurance reserves by $20 million, primarily due to a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors, which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. If actual results differ from our assumptions, we could be exposed to material gains or losses. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities could affect net earnings by approximately $11.2 million. 50 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. The effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate post retirement medical obligation by approximately $1.1 million. Stock Based Compensation Plans Options and RSUs We provide a number of option and other stock based compensation plans to our eligible employees. We determine the fair value of our stock option and other stock based awards at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Cash Awards Linked to our Stock Price Our Cash Performance Unit (CPU) awards are designed to link compensation of certain executive officers and other key employees to our performance over a three year period. The performance metric, as defined in the award, is the performance of our stock price relative to that of a peer group of companies. The range of payout under the award is between 0% and 200% and is payable in cash at the end of the performance period, which is generally three years. Due to our relative stock performance during 2010, we have no liability associated with our 2010 CPU awards. Option pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions we may be exposed to changes in stock based compensation expense that could be material. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 would have affected net earnings by approximately $2.2 million. Additionally, remeasurements of the fair value of our CPUs as a result of fluctuations in our stock price as compared to our peers can cause variability in our results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Income Taxes A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. A valuation allowance is recorded against a deferred tax asset if it is not more likely than not that the asset will be realized. At December 31, 2010, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $58.2 million, and our valuation allowance was $7.7 million. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws, regulations, and taxing authority rulings as well as to the expiration of statutes of limitations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, several factors are considered in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets, including the remaining years available for carryforward, the tax laws for the applicable jurisdictions, the future profitability of the specific business units, and tax planning strategies. Our judgments and estimates concerning uncertain tax positions may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. Our judgments and estimates concerning realizability of deferred tax assets could change if any of the evaluation factors change. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate could increase or decrease in any period, impacting our net earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements for the portion of this standard that is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. The amendments in this standard are intended to improve the disclosures around fair value measurements. This standard requires disclosure of significant transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, as well as the reasons for the transfers. It also clarifies existing disclosures related to the level of disaggregation in the disclosures, as well as the required disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption of this portion of the standard has not had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, a portion of the standard is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010. This portion requires disclosure of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements. This portion of the standard is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). This standard changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not change our accounting for our investment in our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Transfer of Financial Assets. This standard requires more disclosure of information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where companies have continuing exposure to the risk related to transferred financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires special disclosures. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of New Federal Legislation The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010, and on March 30, 2010 the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 became law 52 Table of Contents (together the Act). The enactment of this legislation has not had, nor is it expected to have, a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk due to commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to these fluctuations. Commodity Price Fluctuations We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, including milk, organic and non GMO soybeans, butterfat, sweeteners and other commodity costs used in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of our products, including utilities, natural gas, resin and diesel fuel. In order to secure adequate supplies of materials and bring greater stability to the cost of ingredients and their related manufacturing, packaging and distribution, we routinely enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers. Under the forward purchase contracts, we commit to purchasing agreed upon quantities of ingredients and commodities at agreed upon prices at specified future dates. The outstanding purchase commitment for these commodities at any point in time typically ranges from one months to one years anticipated requirements, depending on the ingredient or commodity. These contracts are considered normal purchases and sales. In addition to entering into forward purchase contracts, from time to time we may purchase over the counter contracts with our qualified banking partners or exchange traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials that are ingredients of our products or components of such ingredients. Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a notional value of $34.3 million as of December 31, 2010. These contracts resulted in net unrealized gains of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2010. At the end of 2010, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse movement in the underlying commodity price, would have resulted in an unrealized net loss of $1.1 million. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuation, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our commodity related hedges. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows that arise from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements, including our forward starting swap agreements that have an effective date of March 31, 2012, provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We believe the credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, if any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in 53 Table of Contents interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency Fluctuations Historically, our international operations represented less than 1% of our sales and long lived assets. With our acquisition of Alpro in July 2009, the relative percentage of our international sales increased slightly. Sales in foreign countries, as well as certain expenses related to those sales, are transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk is primarily limited to the Euro and the British Pound. We may, from time to time, employ derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates or enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our net investment and intercompany payable or receivable balances in foreign operations. During 2010, we did not enter into any foreign currency related contracts. 54 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs, as well as Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Current Business Strategy The evolution of Dean Foods into a leading dairy processor began in the early nineties with an acquisition focused strategy centered on creating scale to align with a consolidating customer base. Since 1993, we have completed more than 40 acquisitions of high quality dairies, dairy products and soy brands, increasing net sales from $150 million to more than $12 billion in 2010. We believe our portfolio of manufacturing and distribution assets enables us to offer regional and national branded and private label products across a variety of product categories, ranging from short shelf life (less than 20 days) to extended shelf life (45 to 60 days) to shelf stable products (6 to 12 months), to customers in a cost effective manner. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar operates one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD networks in the United States, and WhiteWave Alpro maintains significant share positions in soy based and other plant based beverages, organic dairy and creamers in the United States and Europe. Our two business reporting segments, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro, operate as two distinct businesses, and we have developed separate strategies to address their respective sets of business opportunities and challenges. As explained more fully below, our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar strategy focuses on reducing cost and increasing profitability, while working to optimize our fluid milk production network. In contrast, we believe WhiteWave Alpro is well positioned to build on the continuing growth of its branded businesses, and we have developed a strategy to further expand that growth while continuing to focus on cost reduction and capability building. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Large format gallons of milk are the core of our dairy business. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars strategy is centered around achieving significantly lower cost per unit of product produced. To build the core business while meeting current market challenges and customer expectations, the Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar strategy focuses on the following: reducing farm to store cost for gallons of milk in large format outlets by optimizing the efficiency of our production network; getting leaner across the business while improving key functional capabilities by redesigning and further streamlining certain processes, such as back office functions; integrating the sales teams of our Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar organizations to offer our key customers the breadth of our dairy portfolio and provide one face to the customer; driving profitable growth in winning categories by selectively exiting certain non core categories and reinvesting in others; and aligning our organizational structure and mobilizing the employee base to address key initiatives while sustaining customer and profit focus. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpro competes in categories such as organic milk, creamers and plant based beverages (such as soy milk and almond milk) that we believe have strong long term growth potential due to their relative immaturity, low household penetration numbers and strong consumer interest. Within these categories, WhiteWave Alpro brands are often category leaders. To build further growth, the WhiteWave Alpro strategy encompasses the following: expanding the plant based beverage categorys scope by further expansion with products such as almond and coconut milk, and continuing to innovate behind the Silk brand; investing in emerging and alternative channels and expanding the geography and platform of our portfolio; reducing costs to increase profitability, including creation of a new, centrally located U.S. production facility to add needed capacity and further optimize the supply chain for growth; 7 Table of Contents developing commercial, marketing, innovation, customer logistics, financial management and strategic sales capabilities to enhance growth within the organization; and continuing to support our environment, community and employees through sustainability efforts, building organizational diversity and safeguarding the unique culture and reputation of the organization. Future Direction Within these strategies, a sense of corporate responsibility remains an integral part of our efforts. As we work to improve our business, we are committed to do it in a way that is right for our employees, shareholders, consumers, retail customers and the environment. We will realize savings by reducing waste and duplication while we continue to support programs that improve our local communities. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonal changes in the demand for dairy products. The demand for dairy is fairly stable through the first three quarters of the year with a marked increase in the fourth quarter. Fluid milk volumes tend to decrease in the second and third quarters of the year primarily due to the reduction in dairy consumption associated with our school business. However, this drop in volumes is offset by the increase in ice cream and ice cream mix consumption during the summer months. Sales volumes are typically higher in the fourth quarter associated with increased dairy consumption, especially fresh cream and creamers, during seasonal holidays. Because certain of our operating expenses are fixed, fluctuations in volumes and revenue from quarter to quarter may have a material effect on operating income for the respective quarters. Intellectual Property We are continually developing new technology and enhancing existing proprietary technology related to our dairy operations. As of December 31, 2010, 16 United States patents have been issued to us and 20 United States patent applications are pending. We primarily rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. Despite these protections, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy, obtain or use certain portions of our proprietary technology or trademarks. Research and Development With our state of the art research and development (R&D) facility, we are building our capabilities through a team of top consumer packaged goods talent across many disciplines such as product development, dairy and plant based science, culinary and sensory science, nutrition, packaging design and engineering, and process engineering. Our R&D activities primarily consist of generating and testing new product concepts, new flavors and packaging. Our total R&D expense was $25.8 million, $25.5 million and $14.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Developments since January 1, 2010 Amendment and Extension of Senior Secured Credit Facility and Receivables Backed Facility On June 30, 2010, we amended and restated our credit agreement governing our $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, our original $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and our original $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. The terms of the agreement were modified to extend the maturity date for a portion of the principal amount of the revolving credit facility and term loan A by two years, a portion of term loan B by two years and a portion of term loan B by three years (subject to the condition that we meet one of the required leverage, debt, cash or credit rating tests); amend the maximum permitted leverage ratio; as well as amend certain other terms, including an increase in the undrawn costs of the extended portion of the revolving 8 Table of Contents credit facility and the drawn costs of the extended portions of the revolving credit facility, term loan A and term loan B. Additionally, on June 30, 2010, we amended our receivables backed facility to modify the maximum permitted leverage ratio to be consistent with the senior secured credit facility. The receivables backed facility was also modified to extend the liquidity termination date and to amend certain other terms. On December 9, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility. The terms of the agreement were modified to amend our maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum permitted interest coverage ratio and to add a senior secured leverage ratio to the existing credit facility. Additionally, on December 9, 2010, we amended our receivables backed facility to modify the maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio and to add a senior secured leverage ratio to be consistent with the amended ratios discussed above with respect to the senior secured credit facility. The terms of our receivables purchase agreement were also modified to extend the liquidity termination date and to amend certain other terms. Senior Notes Offering On December 9, 2010, we agreed to sell in a private placement $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 9.75% senior notes due 2018. These notes are our senior unsecured obligations and mature on December 15, 2018 with interest payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2011. On December 16, 2010, the date the senior notes were issued, we used the net proceeds of the offering to pay fees and expenses related to the December 2010 amendment to the senior secured credit facility described above and to repay a portion of our outstanding 2014 tranche A term loan borrowings. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations below regarding our outstanding indebtedness and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a more complete description of the credit facility amendments, receivables backed facility amendments and the $400 million senior notes offering. Competitive Pressures and Consumer Environment As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. The dairy industry has experienced widespread price renegotiations. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. This margin compression is being absorbed by both retailers and dairy processors, which negatively impacts our margins. Also, these industry dynamics continue to drive private label market share gains over branded products, which is impacting the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. With unusually low pricing on private label gallons of fresh fluid milk, our regionally branded products are exposed to significantly wider retail price gaps versus private label products. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and 2010 and intend to continue these efforts over the next three to five years. Defined strategies for network optimization and organizational changes are in process to improve performance and programs have been launched to reduce our total cost to serve and our selling and general and administrative costs. We remain focused on sustaining positive cash flow, and net debt reduction, and we are reinvesting for the future in spite of the current challenging environment for our core dairy business. In addition to these ongoing pressures, additional challenges became more pronounced as 2010 progressed. The continued recessionary environment has resulted in a significant segment of consumers who are cutting back on purchases of even the most essential items, which has had a pronounced impact on the fluid milk category. 9 Table of Contents We have experienced a reduction in volumes in the industry and in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. In addition, our customer base has underperformed their historical growth rates versus their peers which has negatively impacted our total volume growth. We expect this trend to continue in the near term. Conventional Milk Environment Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Divestiture of Non core Dairy Operations During the second quarter of 2010, we committed to a plan to sell the business operations of Rachels, which provides organic branded dairy based chilled yogurt, milk and related dairy products primarily in the United Kingdom. The sale of these operations was completed on August 4, 2010. The decision to sell these operations was part of our strategic growth plan and allows us to target our investments in growing our core dairy and branded businesses by divesting non core businesses. All of our Rachels operations, previously reported within the WhiteWave Alpro segment, have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into two separate agreements to sell our Mountain High and private label yogurt operations, which are part of our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. We expect to recognize a gain related to the sale of both of these operations. On February 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Mountain High yogurt operations. We expect our private label operations sale to close in the first half of 2011. These operations did not meet the requirements to be accounted for as discontinued operations. Management Changes On October 8, 2010, we announced that Harrald F. Kroeker would no longer serve as President of our Fresh Dairy Direct division, effective October 6, 2010. Mr. Kroeker received benefits in accordance with our Executive Severance Pay Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8 K filed on November 19, 2010. We also announced that Christopher Sliva was promoted to Chief Commercial Officer effective October 6, 2010. In this new role, Mr. Sliva has responsibility for directing the commercial strategy of both the Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar divisions sales and lines of business. These management changes are consistent with the recent realignment of our segments to focus on cost and service leadership within the Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. On November 9, 2010, we announced that Jack Callahan would resign his role as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to accept a similar position as Chief Financial Officer of another publicly traded company. We also announced that Shaun P. Mara would succeed Mr. Callahan as our Chief Financial Officer effective December 1, 2010. Mr. Mara began his employment as our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer on June 28, 2010. On November 30, 2010, we terminated the employment of Paul T. Moskowitz, Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Mr. Moskowitz received benefits in accordance with our Executive Severance Pay Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8 K filed on November 19, 2010. On December 9, 2010, we announced the appointment of Scott K. Vopni as our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, effective December 15, 2010. Mr. Vopni had previously served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller since joining us in May of 2008. Facility Closing and Reorganization Activities In an effort to continue to optimize our distribution network, we closed one facility and announced the closure of another facility within Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar during 2010. Additionally during 2010, we incurred charges related to work force reductions under management and department realignments, and a broad based reduction of facility and distribution personnel and peer benchmarking plans. We recorded facility closing and reorganization costs of $30.8 million in 2010. We 10 Table of Contents will continue to look for areas of opportunity and will likely incur additional costs related to this effort and other initiatives in the near term as we look to transform our business. Vermont Litigation Settlement We have reached an agreement with the plaintiffs in our previously disclosed purported class action antitrust lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont to settle all claims against us in such action. Pursuant to the agreement, which is subject to court approval, we would be obligated to pay $30 million and would agree to other terms and conditions with respect to our raw milk procurement activities at certain of our processing plants located in the Northeast. These other terms and conditions are not expected to have a material impact to our results of operations. We recorded a pre tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2010 of approximately $30 million with respect to the proposed settlement. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had the following employees: No. ofEmployees % ofTotal Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar 22,711 88 % WhiteWave Alpro 2,311 9 Corporate 758 3 Total 25,780 100 % Approximately 37% of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars and 27% of WhiteWave Alpros employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with our employees and these organizations is satisfactory. Government Regulation Food Related Regulations As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food related regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations; specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell; and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. In addition, the FDA enforces the Public Health Service Act and regulations issued thereunder, which authorizes regulatory activity necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases. These regulations require, for example, pasteurization of milk and milk products. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. We use quality control laboratories in our manufacturing facilities to test raw ingredients. Product quality and freshness are essential to the successful distribution of our products. To monitor product quality at our facilities, we maintain quality control programs to test products during various processing stages. We believe our facilities and manufacturing practices are in material compliance with all government regulations applicable to our business. 11 Table of Contents Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations applicable to our business. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various environmental regulations. Our plants use a number of chemicals that are considered to be extremely hazardous substances pursuant to applicable environmental laws due to their toxicity, including ammonia, which is used extensively in our operations as a refrigerant. Such chemicals must be handled in accordance with such environmental laws. Also, on occasion, certain of our facilities discharge biodegradable wastewater into municipal waste treatment facilities in excess of levels allowed under local regulations. As a result, certain of our facilities are required to pay wastewater surcharges or to construct wastewater pretreatment facilities. To date, such wastewater surcharges have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We maintain above ground and under ground petroleum storage tanks at many of our facilities. We periodically inspect these tanks to determine whether they are in compliance with applicable regulations and, as a result of such inspections are required to make expenditures from time to time in order to ensure that these tanks remain in compliance. In addition, upon removal of the tanks, we are sometimes required to make expenditures to restore the site in accordance with applicable environmental laws. To date, such expenditures have not had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that we are in material compliance with the environmental regulations applicable to our business. We do not expect the cost of our continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, cash flows or competitive position in the foreseeable future. In addition, any asset retirement obligations are not material. Milk Industry Regulation The federal government establishes minimum prices that we must pay to producers in federally regulated areas for raw milk. Raw milk primarily contains raw skim milk, in addition to a small percentage of butterfat. Raw milk delivered to our facilities is tested to determine the percentage of butterfat and other milk components, and we pay our suppliers for the raw milk based on the results of these tests. The federal governments minimum prices vary depending on the processors geographic location or sales area and the type of product manufactured. Federal minimum prices change monthly. Class I butterfat and raw skim milk prices (which are the minimum prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class I products such as fluid milk) and Class II raw milk prices (which are the prices we are required to pay for raw milk that is processed into Class II products such as cottage cheese, creams, creamers, ice cream and sour cream) for each month are announced by the federal government the immediately preceding month. Some states have established their own rules for determining minimum prices for raw milk. In addition to the federal or state minimum prices, we also may pay producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Organic Regulations Our organic products are required to meet the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. These regulations require strict methods of production for organic food products and limit the ability of food processors to use non organic or 12 Table of Contents synthetic materials in the production of organic foods or in the raising of organic livestock. We believe that we are in material compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. Minority Holdings and Other Interests Consolidated Container Company We own an approximately 25% non controlling interest, on a fully diluted basis, in Consolidated Container Company (CCC), one of the nations largest manufacturers of rigid plastic containers and our largest supplier of plastic bottles and bottle components. We have owned a minority interest in CCC since July 1999 when we sold our U.S. plastic packaging operations to CCC. Vestar Capital Partners, an unaffiliated entity, controls CCC through a majority ownership interest. Pursuant to our agreements with Vestar, we control two of the eight seats on CCCs Management Committee. We also have entered into various supply agreements with CCC through December 31, 2011, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase certain of our requirements for plastic bottles and bottle components from CCC. We spent $314.9 million, $268.2 million and $330.3 million on products purchased from CCC during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our relationship with CCC. Hero/WhiteWave Joint Venture In January 2008, we entered into and formed a 50/50 strategic joint venture with Hero Group (Hero), a producer of international fruit and infant nutrition brands, as a strategic growth platform for both companies to extend their global reach by leveraging their established innovation, technology, manufacturing and distribution capabilities over time. The joint venture, Hero/WhiteWave, LLC, which is based in Broomfield, Colorado, combines Heros expertise in fruit, innovation and process engineering with WhiteWaves deep understanding of the American consumer and distribution network, as well as the go to market system of WhiteWave. In the second quarter of 2009, the joint venture introduced Fruit2Day to grocery and club store channels in North America. Beginning January 1, 2009, several new agreements, including a capital lease for plant assets constructed within WhiteWaves existing facilities and operating agreements that include the assignment of day to day management responsibilities to WhiteWave, were entered into between WhiteWave and the joint venture. We determined that this, along with the increased risk created by the capital expenditures and favorable lease terms to the joint venture, as well as the benefit the new product line brings to WhiteWaves existing customer relationships, resulted in the decision that WhiteWave was the primary beneficiary of the variable interests. As such, the financial position and the results of operations for the joint venture should be consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the joint venture has been consolidated as of January 1, 2009. The resulting non controlling interests share in the equity of the joint venture is presented as a separate component of stockholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and the net loss attributable to the non controlling interest is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income. During 2010 and 2009, our joint venture partner made cash contributions of $8.0 million and $12.7 million, respectively, and non cash contributions of $0.5 million in 2009 to the joint venture. Our joint venture partner did not make any non cash contributions in 2010. During 2010 and 2009, we made cash contributions of $8.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively, and continued non cash contributions in the form of the capital lease for the manufacturing facility constructed at one of our existing WhiteWave plants. The joint venture has assets of $26.6 million, primarily property, plant and equipment, and liabilities of $3.5 million, which are included within the WhiteWave Alpro segment. Where You Can Get More Information Our fiscal year ends on December 31. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13 Table of Contents You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commissions Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge through our website at www.deanfoods.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethics is applicable to all of our employees and directors, with the exception of our Alpro employees, who are subject to a comparable code of ethics. Our Code of Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.deanfoods.com, together with the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors and the charters of all of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any waivers that we may grant to our executive officers or directors under the Code of Ethics, and any amendments to our Code of Ethics, will be posted on our corporate website. If you would like hard copies of any of these documents, or of any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, write or call us at: Dean Foods Company 2711 North Haskell Avenue, Suite 3400 Dallas, Texas 75204 (214) 303 3400 Attention: Investor Relations Item 1A. Risk Factors Competitive Risks Continued Discounting of Fluid Milk by Large Format Retailers, and the Continued Shift to Private Label, Has Decreased Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re dedicated key shelf space currently occupied by our regionally branded products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. During 2010, retailers continued the trend of discounting their prices on milk to drive value for the end consumer and to increase traffic flow, resulting in lower margins for the retailers. Retailers in turn pushed suppliers for lower prices, which has decreased our margins. In addition, the fluid milk category experienced unusually low pricing on private label milk during 2010, which widened the price gaps between private label and our regional brands. As a result, we are experiencing a continued shift from branded to private label products, which further impacts our profitability. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose these customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a 14 Table of Contents lower cost. Additionally, if we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected by the decrease in margin. Volume Softness in the Dairy Category Has Had a Negative Impact on Our Sales and Profits. Industry wide volume softness across dairy product categories during much of 2010, as compared to 2009, has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the amount of price increases that we can seek to recapture. If these trends continue or accelerate, our business could be further negatively impacted. In addition, during 2010, we experienced a decline in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix. Increased Competition With Our Nationally Branded Products and Economic Conditions Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Profit Margin. Our national brands such as Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic, Land O Lakes and International Delight have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As plant based, organic and coffee enhancing products have gained in popularity with consumers, our products in these categories have attracted competitors, including private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. In addition, our nationally branded products typically have higher marketing costs than our regionally branded or private label products, which could negatively impact the profitability of this segment of our business. In periods of economic decline, consumers tend to purchase lower priced products, including conventional milk, coffee creamers and other private label products, which could reduce sales of our nationally branded products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin for our nationally branded products. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. Some of our nationally branded products compete intensely for consumer spend. If our nationally branded products fail to compete successfully with other branded offerings in the marketplace, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted. The Loss of Any of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sams Club, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2010. During 2010, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 30% of our consolidated net sales. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. We are Subject to Competitive Bidding Situations, the Outcome of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. 15 Table of Contents Commodity Risks Availability of and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Our business is heavily dependent on raw materials such as conventional and organic raw milk, butterfat, diesel fuel, resin and soybeans and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is a large consumer of diesel fuel and WhiteWave Alpro is affected by the costs of petroleum based products through the use of common carriers and packaging. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on market conditions, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather, including the heightened impact of weather events related to climate change, also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. Sometimes supplies of raw materials, such as resin, have been insufficient to meet demand. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials, particularly diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, has adversely affected our profitability as upward price changes often lag changes in costs we charge our customers. In some cases the price increases of these non dairy inputs may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers due to contractual and other limitations. In periods of rapid movements in dairy commodities, our ability to pass through costs is impaired due to the timing of passing through the price increases. These lags and limitations have periodically decreased our profit margins in inflationary markets. In addition, raw material cost fluctuations from year to year can cause our revenues to increase or decrease significantly compared to prior periods. The organic dairy industry is continuing to develop in terms of consumer acceptance and market penetration, and, as a result, continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Industry regulation, and the costs of organic farming compared to prices paid for conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. An oversupply of organic raw milk can cause significant discounting in the sale of organic packaged milk, which increases competitive pressure on our branded products and could cause our profitability to suffer. An undersupply or higher input costs can increase the costs of organic raw milk, which can cause retail price gaps between private label and branded products to expand, potentially decreasing our volumes and adversely affecting our results. The impact of retail price gaps may be compounded by the current economic environment as consumers become increasingly focused on product pricing. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase conventional milk instead of organic milk due to differences in cost, which could further decrease our volumes and results. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.0 billion under our senior secured credit facility, of which $2.6 billion were in term loan borrowings with an additional $453.0 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion senior secured revolving line of credit. In addition, we had $1.0 billion of face value of senior unsecured notes outstanding and nothing outstanding under our receivables backed facility at December 31, 2010. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents In addition, in the current economic climate, investors may be apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2010, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 5.13 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.50 times as of March 31, 2012. Failure to comply with the financial covenants (as defined in our credit agreements), or any other non financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our senior secured leverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Throughout 2010, significant pricing pressures from our retailer customers, as well as volume declines, decreased our operating profitability. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is dependent on our ability to renew our receivables backed facility annually and refinance our senior secured credit facility, portions of which mature beginning in 2012. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Obligations below for more information. The timing, approach, and terms of any such refinancing would depend upon market conditions and managements judgment, among other factors. An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill Could Negatively Impact Our Consolidated Results of Operations and Net Worth. As of December 31, 2010, we had $3.2 billion of goodwill representing approximately 40% of our total assets, of which $2.5 billion was associated with our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment, and $0.7 billion was associated with our WhiteWave Alpro segment. We record goodwill initially at fair value and review its fair value for impairment at least annually, as of December 1, or more frequently if impairment indicators, such as disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating performance or sustained market capitalization declines, are present. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to have a potential impairment and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. However, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered impaired. However, if the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 17 Table of Contents In performing the first step analysis, we calculate the value of goodwill using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as a market approach that reflects market participant views we believe would exist in an exit transaction. For fiscal 2010, our analysis indicates that each of our reporting units has a fair value in excess of its carrying value and no impairment charge will be required; however, the excess of the reporting unit fair values over carrying values, specifically with respect to our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, is significantly less than in prior years. We can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results. In assessing the fair value of our reporting units, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, growth rates, our cost of capital and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying these factors and different assumptions could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a non cash charge, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Costs of Providing Employee Benefits Have Escalated, and Liabilities Under Certain Plans May be Triggered due to Our Actions or the Actions of Others, Which May Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multi employer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Our funded status as of December 31, 2010 decreased by $4.5 million from the prior year end and is still $55.6 million lower than our funded status at December 31, 2007. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multi employer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Network optimization activities, including facility closings, may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans or multi employer plans in which we participate. In addition, certain actions or the financial condition of other companies which participate in multi employer plans may create financial obligations for us, which circumstances are entirely out of our control. Future funding requirements, and related charges, associated with multi employer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Continued Recessionary Economy May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. The continued recessionary economy has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. Higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, or other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn adversely affects our results of operations. There can be no assurances that government responses to the economic downturn will restore consumer confidence. 18 Table of Contents Changes in Our Credit Ratings May Have a Negative Impact on Our Future Financing Costs or the Availability of Capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. During 2010, in response to the decline in our operating results and the difficult dairy operating environment, both Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings downgraded our credit ratings by one level each. Following these actions, our credit ratings continue to be considered below investment grade by the ratings agencies. Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, these recent ratings changes or further downgrades in our credit ratings may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Strategic Growth Plan Risks We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Strategic Growth Plan or Reduce Costs as Expected. We are implementing a strategic growth plan, which includes a number of transformational initiatives, that we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success depends upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. Currently, operating conditions have had negative implications for overall employee compensation, which has increased the risk that we may not be able to retain qualified personnel to carry out our strategies. We continue to implement profit enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and related functions. These initiatives are focused on cost saving opportunities in procurement, distribution, conversion and network optimization. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in large part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. In addition, our failure to achieve anticipated cost savings could lead to an impairment of our goodwill. Product, Supply Chain and Systems Risks We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes, dietary preferences and purchasing habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment, and we may fail to realize anticipated returns on such investments due to lack of consumer acceptance of such products. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we continue to invest in research and development in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global companies with greater resources which compete with us in the health and wellness space. In addition, as consumers become increasingly aware of the environmental and social impacts of the products they purchase their preferences and purchasing decisions may change. If our products fail to meet changing consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our product strategy may not succeed. 19 Table of Contents We May Experience Liabilities or Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Product Issues, Such as Product Recalls. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories such as fluid milk that have strong health and wellness credentials. Disruption of Our Supply Chain or Transportation Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Our Business Operations Could be Disrupted if Our Information Technology Systems Fail to Perform Adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Legal and Regulatory Risks Pending Antitrust Lawsuits May have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are the subject of several antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend and could cause a diversion of managements attention. In some cases, pursuant to statute, damages recoverable by private plaintiffs may be trebled, which could result in a large judgment against us in the event we do not prevail in a trial situation. In addition to increased litigation costs, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and or customer preference for our products. In addition, mergers and acquisitions activities are subject to these antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions. 20 Table of Contents The Dairy Industry in Which We Operate Has Been Subject to Increased Government Scrutiny Which Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are subject to antitrust and other competition laws in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will impact us. Throughout 2010, the dairy industry was the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the current administration initiated a review of existing dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. This review process may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate and that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Litigation or Legal Proceedings Could Expose Us to Significant Liabilities and Have a Negative Impact on Our Reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor Disputes Could Adversely Affect Us. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 37% of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars and 27% of WhiteWave Alpros employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims. Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards, Including Those of Non US Jurisdictions, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. In addition, we have operations outside of the United States which may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and compliance with foreign rules and regulations. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in leased premises at 2711 North Haskell Avenue, Suite 3400, Dallas, TX 75204. In addition, we operate more than 100 manufacturing facilities. Management believes that Dean Foods facilities are well maintained and are generally suitable and of sufficient capacity to support our current business operations and that the loss of any single facility would not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. The following tables set forth, by business segment, our principal manufacturing facilities. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar currently conducts its manufacturing operations within the following 95 facilities, most of which are owned: Homewood, Alabama(2) Decatur, Alabama Buena Park, California City of Industry, California(2) Fullerton, California Gustine, California Hayward, California Riverside, California Tulare, California Delta, Colorado Denver, Colorado Englewood, Colorado Greeley, Colorado Newington, Connecticut Deland, Florida Miami, Florida Orlando, Florida Baxley, Georgia Braselton, Georgia Hilo, Hawaii Honolulu, Hawaii Boise, Idaho Belvidere, Illinois Harvard, Illinois Huntley, Illinois OFallon, Illinois Rockford, Illinois Decatur, Indiana Huntington, Indiana Rochester, Indiana LeMars, Iowa Louisville, Kentucky Murray, Kentucky Newport, Kentucky(2) New Orleans, Louisiana Shreveport, Louisiana Bangor, Maine Frederick, Maryland Franklin, Massachusetts Lynn, Massachusetts Mendon, Massachusetts Evart, Michigan Grand Rapids, Michigan Livonia, Michigan Marquette, Michigan Thief River Falls, Minnesota White Bear Lake, Minnesota Woodbury, Minnesota Billings, Montana Great Falls, Montana North Las Vegas, Nevada Reno, Nevada Florence, New Jersey Albuquerque, New Mexico Delhi, New York Friendship, New York Rensselaer, New York High Point, North Carolina Winston Salem, North Carolina Bismarck, North Dakota Tulsa, Oklahoma Marietta, Ohio Springfield, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Erie, Pennsylvania Lansdale, Pennsylvania Lebanon, Pennsylvania Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania Sharpsville, Pennsylvania Spartanburg, South Carolina Sioux Falls, South Dakota Athens, Tennessee Nashville, Tennessee(2) Dallas, Texas(2) El Paso, Texas Houston, Texas Lubbock, Texas McKinney, Texas San Antonio, Texas Sulphur Springs, Texas(2) Waco, Texas Orem, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Richmond, Virginia Springfield, Virginia Ashwaubenon, Wisconsin Richland Center, Wisconsin Sheboygan, Wisconsin Waukesha, Wisconsin The majority of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars manufacturing facilities also serve as distribution facilities. In addition, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has numerous distribution branches located across the country, some of which are owned but most of which are leased. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars headquarters are located within our corporate headquarters. 22 Table of Contents WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpro currently conducts its manufacturing operations from the following 9 facilities, most of which are owned: City of Industry, California Jacksonville, Florida Bridgeton, New Jersey Cedar City, Utah Mt. Crawford, Virginia Wevelgem, Belgium Issenheim, France Landgraaf, Netherlands Northamptonshire, United Kingdom WhiteWave also owns two organic dairy farms located in Paul, Idaho and Kennedyville, Maryland. WhiteWaves headquarters and our research and development facility are located in leased premises in Broomfield, Colorado. Alpros headquarters are located in leased premises in Gent, Belgium. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not party to, nor are our properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, other than as set forth below: We were named, among several defendants, in two purported class action antitrust complaints filed on July 5, 2007. The complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, Columbia Division, and allege generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price Southeastern dairy farmers are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities (dairy farmer actions). A third purported class action antitrust complaint (retailer action) was filed on August 9, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The complaint in the retailer action was amended on March 28, 2008. The amended complaint alleges generally that we, either acting alone or in conjunction with others in the milk industry, lessened competition in the Southeastern United States for the sale of processed fluid Grade A milk to retail outlets and other customers, and that the defendants conduct also artificially inflated wholesale prices for direct milk purchasers. Plaintiffs in both the dairy farmer actions and the retailer action are seeking damages for the alleged violations. If plaintiffs are successful and we are judged to have violated the antitrust laws, plaintiffs are entitled to three times the damages caused by the violations found. Four additional purported class action complaints were filed on August 27, 2007, October 3, 2007, November 15, 2007 and February 13, 2008 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. The allegations in these complaints are similar to those in the dairy farmer actions. On January 7, 2008, a United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred all of the pending cases to the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division. On April 1, 2008, the Eastern District Court ordered the consolidation of the six dairy farmer actions, and ordered the retailer action to be administratively coordinated with the consolidated dairy farmer actions. A motion to dismiss the dairy farmer actions was denied on May 20, 2008, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed by the dairy farmer plaintiffs on June 20, 2008. A motion to dismiss the retailer action was denied on July 27, 2009. Motions for class certification were filed in both actions on May 1, 2009. The motion for class certification in the dairy farmer action was granted on September 7, 2010. A petition seeking leave to appeal that decision was filed with the Sixth Circuit on September 21, 2010 and is currently pending. The motion for class certification in the retailer action is still pending. A motion for summary judgment in the retailer action was granted in part and denied in part on August 4, 2010. Defendants filed a motion for reconsideration on September 10, 2010, and filed a supplemental motion for summary judgment as to the remaining claims on September 27, 2010. Those motions are currently pending before the court. A motion for summary judgment in the dairy farmer action was filed on July 27, 2010 and remains pending. Fact discovery and expert discovery are complete in these matters, and expert reports have been submitted. Presently, trial in the dairy farmer action is scheduled to begin in June 2011. If the Sixth Circuit grants the petition to appeal the class certification motion, we expect that the trial will be postponed. We intend to continue to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. 23 Table of Contents On June 29, 2009, another purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville Division, on behalf of indirect purchasers of processed fluid Grade A milk (indirect purchaser action). The allegations in this complaint are similar to those in the retailer action, but primarily involve state law claims. Because the allegations in this complaint substantially overlap with the allegations in the retailer action, on September 1, 2009, the Court granted the parties joint motion to stay all proceedings in the indirect purchaser action pending the outcome of the summary judgment motions in the retailer action. On October 8, 2009, we were named, among several defendants, in a purported class action antitrust complaint filed in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont. The original complaint was amended on January 21, 2010, and contained allegations similar in nature to that of the dairy farmer actions (noted above), and alleges generally that we and others in the milk industry worked together to limit the price dairy farmers in the Northeastern United States are paid for their raw milk and to deny these farmers access to fluid Grade A milk processing facilities. A second similar complaint was filed by a different plaintiff on January 14, 2010. The Company has reached an agreement with the plaintiffs to settle all claims against the Company in this action. The settlement agreement is subject to court approval, and multiple motions related to the settlement agreement are currently pending before the court. There can be no assurance that the court will approve the agreement as proposed by the parties. Pursuant to the agreement the Company would be obligated to pay $30 million, and would agree to other terms and conditions with respect to its raw milk procurement activities at certain of its processing plants located in the Northeast. On January 22, 2010, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the States of Wisconsin, Illinois and Michigan (Plaintiff States) filed a civil action in the Eastern District of Wisconsin (DOJ lawsuit) alleging that the Company violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act when it acquired the Consumer Products Division of Foremost Farms USA on April 1, 2009 (the acquisition) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $35 million. The DOJ and the Plaintiff States seek a declaration that the acquisition violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, divestiture by the Company of all assets and interests it acquired as part of the acquisition, an order permanently enjoining the Company from further ownership and operation of the assets that were part of the acquisition, and to compel the Company to provide certain advance notification of future acquisitions involving school milk or fluid milk processing operations. A motion to partially dismiss the DOJ lawsuit was denied on April 7, 2010. This matter is currently in the fact discovery stage. The Company intends to vigorously defend against this action. On April 28, 2009, a stockholder derivative complaint was filed purportedly on behalf of Dean Foods Company (the Company) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greeneville division. The complaint names the Companys then current directors, as well an officer of the Company, and a former director among the defendants. The complaint alleges that the officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Company under Delaware law by approving the 2001 merger between the former Dean Foods Company and Suiza Foods Corporation, and allegedly participating in, or failing to prevent, a purported conspiracy to fix the price of Grade A milk. The complaint also names others in the milk industry as defendants for allegedly aiding and abetting the officers and directors breach of their fiduciary duties and names the Company as a nominal defendant. The plaintiffs are seeking, on behalf of the Company, an undisclosed amount of damages and equitable relief. On August 7, 2009, the Company and other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and a motion to transfer the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The defendants motion to transfer the case was granted on March 31, 2010. On September 14, 2010, the Court granted the motion to dismiss this matter. The plaintiffs subsequently filed an amended complaint, and the Company and the other defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On January 26, 2011, the Court granted a motion to dismiss the amended complaint and entered a judgment dismissing the case with predjudice. On January 18, 2008, our subsidiary, Kohler Mix Specialties, LLC (Kohler), was named as a defendant in a civil complaint filed in the Superior Court, Judicial District of Hartford. The plaintiff in the case is the Commissioner of Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut. The complaint alleges generally that 24 Table of Contents Kohler improperly discharged wastewater in to the waters of the State of Connecticut, and bypassed certain wastewater treatment equipment in violation of certain Connecticut environmental regulations and Kohlers wastewater discharge permit. The plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties with respect to the claims. On December 14, 2009, Kohler filed its answer to the complaint. This matter is currently in the fact discovery stage. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters set forth above. Other than the matters set forth above, we are party from time to time to certain claims, litigations, audits and investigations. Potential liabilities associated with the other matters referred to in this paragraph are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other We are in discussions with numerous states, most but not all of whom have appointed an agent to conduct an examination of our books and records to determine whether we have complied with state unclaimed property laws. In addition to seeking remittance of unclaimed property, some states may also seek interest and penalties. At this time, it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of these potential examinations. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DF. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of our common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange for the last two fiscal years. At February 18, 2011, there were 4,241 record holders of our common stock. High Low 2009: First Quarter $ 21.13 $ 17.83 Second Quarter 20.70 17.61 Third Quarter 21.92 17.60 Fourth Quarter 19.65 15.90 2010: First Quarter 18.53 14.46 Second Quarter 16.89 9.57 Third Quarter 12.00 9.49 Fourth Quarter 10.80 7.26 We have not historically declared or paid a regular cash dividend on our common stock. We have no current plans to pay a cash dividend in the future. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Current Debt Obligations and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the terms of our senior secured credit facility, including terms restricting the payment of dividends. Stock Repurchases Since 1998, our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized the repurchase of our common stock up to an aggregate of $2.3 billion, excluding fees and expenses. We made no share repurchases in 2010 or 2009 and do not intend to make any repurchases for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, $218.7 million was available for repurchases under this program (excluding fees and commissions). Shares, when repurchased, are retired. 26 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2010 has been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The selected financial data do not purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in thousands except share data) Operating data: Net sales $ 12,122,887 $ 11,113,782 $ 12,361,311 $ 11,731,870 $ 10,011,018 Cost of sales 9,116,965 8,008,561 9,438,593 9,015,216 7,290,290 Gross profit(1) 3,005,922 3,105,221 2,922,718 2,716,654 2,720,728 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,904,526 1,818,833 1,802,214 1,708,594 1,636,825 General and administrative 629,656 623,835 482,392 415,694 405,985 Amortization of intangibles 11,295 9,637 9,836 6,744 5,983 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30,761 30,162 22,758 34,421 25,116 Other expense(2) 30,000 1,688 Total operating costs and expenses 2,606,238 2,482,467 2,317,200 2,167,141 2,073,909 Operating income 399,684 622,754 605,518 549,513 646,819 Other (income) expense: Interest expense(3)(6) 248,301 246,510 308,178 333,328 194,630 Other (income) expense, net(8) 161 (4,221 ) 1,123 5,956 429 Total other expense 248,462 242,289 309,301 339,284 195,059 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 151,222 380,465 296,217 210,229 451,760 Income taxes 73,482 151,845 114,330 82,862 174,376 Income from continuing operations 77,740 228,620 181,887 127,367 277,384 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 7,521 89 (1,275 ) 608 (1,978 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (2,505 ) (862 ) 3,158 3,378 (49,992 ) Net income 82,756 227,847 183,770 131,353 225,414 Net loss attributable to non controlling interest 8,735 12,461 Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 91,491 $ 240,308 $ 183,770 $ 131,353 $ 225,414 Cash dividend paid per share $ $ $ $ 15.00 $ Basic earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 0.50 $ 1.41 $ 1.23 $ 1.01 $ 1.68 Diluted earnings per common share: Net income attributable to Dean Foods Company $ 0.50 $ 1.38 $ 1.20 $ 0.96 $ 1.61 Average common shares: Basic 181,799,306 170,986,886 149,266,519 130,310,811 133,938,777 Diluted 182,861,802 173,858,303 153,395,746 137,291,998 139,762,104 Other data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(4) 1.50 x 2.26 x 1.81 x 1.55 x 2.85 x Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total assets $ 7,956,667 $ 7,843,941 $ 7,040,192 $ 7,033,356 $ 6,770,173 Long term debt(5)(6) 4,067,525 4,228,979 4,489,251 5,272,351 3,355,851 Other long term liabilities 351,645 393,575 411,991 320,181 238,682 Non controlling interest 14,543 15,286 Dean Foods Company stockholders equity(6)(7) 1,499,525 1,351,946 558,234 51,267 1,809,399 27 Table of Contents (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. (2) Results for 2010 include a charge of $30.0 million related to a class action antitrust complaint settlement (see Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding this charge) and 2007 includes a loss of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our tofu business. (3) Results for 2010 include charges totaling $12.3 million in financing costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and December 9, 2010. Additionally, results for 2007 include a charge of $13.5 million to write off financing costs related to the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility. (4) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represents income before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all debt, amortization of deferred financing costs and the portion of rental expense that we believe is representative of the interest component of rent expense. (5) Includes the current portion of long term debt. (6) In May 2009, we issued and sold 25.4 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of $444.7 million from the offering. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of our subsidiarys 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and indebtedness under our receivables backed facility. On March 5, 2008, we issued and sold 18.7 million shares of our common stock in a public offering. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the offering which were used to reduce debt outstanding under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. On April 2, 2007, we recapitalized our balance sheet with the completion of a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility and the return of $1.94 billion to shareholders of record as of March 27, 2007, through a $15 per share special cash dividend. (7) Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. As a result, we recognized a $25.9 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax positions, a $20.1 million increase in deferred income tax assets, a $0.3 million decrease to additional paid in capital, a $0.2 million decrease to goodwill and a $5.7 million decrease to retained earnings. The balance at December 31, 2006 reflects a $14.8 million reduction related to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The reduction had no impact on net income. (8) Results for 2009 include a gain of $4.2 million related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Results for 2007 include charges of $4.5 million for professional fees and other costs related to the second quarter special cash dividend. 28 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. WhiteWave Alpro markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, as well as other plant based beverages and soy food products, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages such as soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. Our Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. In the first quarter of 2010, our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker, changed the way he evaluates the performance of our operations, develops strategy and allocates capital resources. As a result, beginning in the first quarter of 2010, our Morningstar operations were aligned with our Fresh Dairy Direct operations, so that our two reporting segments consisted of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. This change reflects the divergence between the strategies and objectives of these two segments. Our value added branded operations at WhiteWave Alpro added scale with the acquisition of Alpro in July 2009 and are focused on driving growth through effective marketing and innovation. Our traditional dairy operations at Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are driven by a focus on cost and service leadership. We believe these revised segments have increased internal focus and offered management and investors improved visibility into the performance of the segments against their specific objectives. All segment results set forth herein have been recast to present results on a comparable basis. These changes had no impact on consolidated net sales or operating income. During the second quarter of 2010, we committed to a plan to sell the business operations of Rachels, which provides organic branded dairy based chilled yogurt, milk and related dairy products primarily in the United Kingdom. The sale of these operations was completed on August 4, 2010. The decision to sell these operations was part of our strategic growth plan and allows us to target our investments in growing our core dairy and branded businesses by divesting non core operations. All Rachels operations, previously reported within the WhiteWave Alpro segment, have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless stated otherwise, any reference to income statement items in these financial statements refers to results from continuing operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into two separate agreements to sell our Mountain High and private label yogurt operations, which are part of our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. We expect to recognize a gain related to the sale of both of these operations. On February 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Mountain High yogurt operations. We expect our private label operations sale to close in the first half of 2011. These operations did not meet the requirements to be accounted for as discontinued operations. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is our largest segment, with approximately 84% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, ice cream, cultured dairy products, creamers, ice cream mix and other dairy products, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature 29 Table of Contents of its products, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by a centralized corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins fragmentation and lack of network optimization. According to the USDA, per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline. Volume sales growth across the industry has declined recently. The continued recessionary environment has resulted in a significant segment of consumers who are cutting back on purchases of even the most essential items, which has had a pronounced impact on the fluid milk category. We have experienced a reduction in volumes in the industry and in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar business. We expect this trend to continue in the near term. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. This margin compression is being absorbed by both retailers and dairy processors. These industry dynamics have driven private label market share gains over branded products, which is impacting the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. With unusually low pricing on private label gallons, our regionally branded products are exposed to significantly wider retail price gaps versus private label. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. In addition to these industry dynamics, we have faced challenges with our conventional milk costs as well. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and 2010 and intend to continue these efforts over the next three to five years. Defined strategies for network optimization and organizational changes are in process to improve performance and programs have been launched to reduce our total selling, general, and administrative costs. We remain focused on sustaining positive cash flow, net debt reduction and are reinvesting for the future in spite of the current challenging environment. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpros net sales were approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. WhiteWave Alpro manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy milk, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages including soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and 30 Table of Contents Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products primarily through its internal sales force and independent brokers. The majority of the WhiteWave Alpro products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWave Alpro has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on brand recognition and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Alpro pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy, other plant based and organic beverages and foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits attributable to these products, and we believe WhiteWave Alpro has a leading position in the these category. Recent Developments See Part I Item 1. Business Developments Since January 1, 2010 for recent developments that have impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,122.9 100.0 % $ 11,113.8 100.0 % $ 12,361.3 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,117.0 75.2 8,008.6 72.1 9,438.6 76.4 Gross profit(1) 3,005.9 24.8 3,105.2 27.9 2,922.7 23.6 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,904.5 15.7 1,818.8 16.4 1,802.2 14.6 General and administrative 629.6 5.2 623.8 5.6 482.4 3.9 Amortization of intangibles 11.3 0.1 9.6 0.1 9.8 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30.8 0.3 30.2 0.3 22.8 0.2 Other expense 30.0 0.2 Total operating costs and expenses 2,606.2 21.5 2,482.4 22.4 2,317.2 18.8 Operating income $ 399.7 3.3 % $ 622.8 5.5 % $ 605.5 4.8 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. 31 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2010 2009 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 10,184.9 $ 9,480.8 $ 704.1 7.4 % WhiteWave Alpro 1,938.0 1,633.0 305.0 18.7 Total $ 12,122.9 $ 11,113.8 $ 1,009.1 9.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 157.7 $ (365.7 ) $ 912.1 $ 704.1 WhiteWave Alpro 172.7 106.9 25.4 305.0 Total $ 330.4 $ (258.8 ) $ 937.5 $ 1,009.1 Net sales Consolidated net sales increased $1.0 billion during 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs, acquisitions and an increase in sales volumes of our branded products, particularly International Delight, Horizon Organic and Silk. These increases were partially offset by highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as lower sales volumes across all categories in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales increased $1.1 billion, or 13.8%, in 2010 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher commodity prices, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, offset by lower overall volumes in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of 2009 that continued throughout 2010. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $123.8 million, or 5.0%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $85.7 million driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $36.0 million related to Alpro, higher freight and fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs and related distribution costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such outside storage costs to decrease in 2011 as we realize additional capacity as a result of our capital expenditures at WhiteWave. These increases were partly offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $5.8 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $24.5 million for Alpro, and higher consulting fees, offset by lower employee related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. 32 Table of Contents Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $0.6 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other expense represents a $30.0 million charge related to a pending class action antitrust settlement (see Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding this charge). Other (Income) Expense Excluding $12.3 million in financing costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and December 9, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.5 million from the prior year, primarily due to lower average debt balances, lower interest rates during the first six months of 2010 and the expiration of $800 million notional amounts of fixed interest rate swap agreements in the first quarter of 2010. In 2009 we recorded a $4.2 million gain related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. We expect to see an increase in interest expense in 2011 as a result of higher average interest rates, due to the June 30, 2010 credit facility amendment and the December 16, 2010 senior notes issuance. This higher interest expense will be slightly offset by expected lower average debt balances resulting from free cash flow generation and the net proceeds from the sale of our Mountain High and private label yogurt businesses, as well as the expiration of certain of our fixed interest rate swap agreements. The sale of our Mountain High business closed February 1, 2011, and we expect to close the sale of our private label yogurt business in the first half of 2011. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 48.6% for 2010 compared to 39.9% in 2009. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. Additionally, in 2010, we identified unrecoverable deferred tax asset balances associated with errors primarily related to periods prior to 2007. Since the effects of the errors are not material to the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2010 and were not material to any individual year prior to 2010, we adjusted our deferred tax assets and recorded a non cash income tax charge of $10.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of this correction, the effective tax rate for 2010 was 41.4%, which was higher than 2009 primarily as a result of lower net earnings. Our 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates were both negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 10,184.9 100.0 % $ 9,480.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,873.3 77.3 6,961.4 73.4 Gross profit 2,311.6 22.7 2,519.4 26.6 Operating costs and expenses 1,807.1 17.7 1,762.7 18.6 Total operating income $ 504.5 5.0 % $ 756.7 8.0 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales increased $704.1 million, or 7.4%, during 2010 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs and the impact of acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by the impact of highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as overall volume declines across all product categories. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy has driven material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price 33 Table of Contents points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Beginning in 2009 and throughout 2010, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions, which were originally absorbed by retailers. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2010 compared to 2009: Year Ended December 31* 2010 2009 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 15.35 $ 11.48 33.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 9.26 7.40 25.1 Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.83 1.24 47.6 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 9.85 7.09 38.9 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.86 1.26 47.6 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales increased $911.9 million, or 13.1%, in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, slightly offset by lower personnel costs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin decreased to 22.7% in 2010 from 26.6% in 2009. Gross margins trended downward due to the increasingly intense competitive environment we have experienced. In addition to the increasing demands to absorb pricing concessions, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, exacerbated by weak volumes across dairy and non dairy product offerings, further impacting profitability. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers as well as our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. 34 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $44.4 million, or 2.5%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $28.2 million, primarily driven by increased fuel and freight costs. These costs were offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management, as well as benefits from efficiencies gained in our distribution network with route reductions and lower fuel usage. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $15.2 million due to an increase in supply chain management and higher consulting fees, offset by lower personnel related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,938.0 100.0 % $ 1,633.0 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,242.7 64.1 1,058.2 64.8 Gross profit 695.3 35.9 574.8 35.2 Operating costs and expenses 529.1 27.3 444.5 27.2 Total operating income $ 166.2 8.6 % $ 130.3 8.0 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $305.0 million, or 18.7%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong volume growth in our branded products. Excluding the impact of our Alpro acquisition, net sales increased $132.3 million, or 8.1%. Sales for the creamers business, which includes both International Delight and LAND O LAKES, grew low double digits compared to 2009. Horizon Organic brand sales also grew low double digits while Silk brand sales grew high single digits compared to the prior year. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $184.5 million, or 17.4%, in 2010 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by a $92.9 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition higher sales volumes and higher input costs. Gross Profit WhiteWave Alpros gross profit increased to 35.9% in 2010 from 35.2% in 2009, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition, strong volume growth, a favorable brand mix, as well as benefits from productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $84.6 million, or 19.0%, during 2010 compared to 2009. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses are summarized below: Selling and distribution costs increased $50.1 million, driven by a $36.0 million increase due to the Alpro acquisition, volume growth and higher fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such costs to remain at higher levels as we work to add additional production and storage capacity. General and administrative costs increased $33.8 million, primarily driven by a $24.5 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition. 35 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2009 2008 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 9,480.8 $ 10,924.4 $ (1,443.6 ) (13.2 )% WhiteWave Alpro 1,633.0 1,436.9 196.1 13.6 Total $ 11,113.8 $ 12,361.3 $ (1,247.5 ) (10.1 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 159.0 $ (61.2 ) $ (1,541.4 ) $ (1,443.6 ) WhiteWave Alpro 176.4 (31.2 ) 50.9 196.1 Total $ 335.4 $ (92.4 ) $ (1,490.5 ) $ (1,247.5 ) Net sales decreased $1.2 billion during 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower pricing in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment, as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Net sales in our WhiteWave Alpro segment increased as the Alpro acquisition more than offset the impact of the pass through of lower commodity costs to customers and slightly lower sales volume, coupled with the exit of several business relationships. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales decreased $1.4 billion, or 15.2%, in 2009 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued favorable commodity prices, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network. Overall, commodity prices remained low compared to 2008 levels. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $165.2 million, or 7.1%, during the year compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: General and administrative costs increased $141.4 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and investments in the capability build out of our supply chain, information technology and research and development functions that are foundational to our strategies; higher personnel related costs including incentive based compensation, share based compensation expense and additional headcount; higher professional fees and other outside services primarily related to our strategic initiatives, as well as higher transaction related costs. Selling and distribution costs increased $16.6 million driven by an increase in marketing spend, especially in the fourth quarter, on our nationally branded products at WhiteWave, higher expenses attributable to our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture and the impact of our recent Alpro acquisition, partially offset by lower fuel costs and benefits from our strategic initiatives across our distribution network. Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $7.4 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. 36 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $246.5 million in 2009 from $308.2 million in 2008, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates during 2009 compared to the prior year. Additionally, in 2009, a $4.2 million gain was recognized related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.9% for 2009 compared to 38.6% in 2008. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,480.8 100.0 % $ 10,924.4 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,961.4 73.4 8,480.7 77.6 Gross profit 2,519.4 26.6 2,443.7 22.4 Operating costs and expenses 1,762.7 18.6 1,762.7 16.2 Total operating income $ 756.7 8.0 % $ 681.0 6.2 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales decreased 13.2% during 2009 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower pricing as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Recent acquisitions and solid execution drove higher fluid milk sales volumes of approximately 2.7%, which were more than offset by lower sales volumes in other products for an overall volume decline of 0.6%. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2009 compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31* 2009 2008 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.48 $ 18.00 (36.2 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 7.40 12.94 (42.8 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.24 1.57 (21.0 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 7.09 11.13 (36.3 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.26 1.57 (19.7 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges 37 Table of Contents that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales decreased $1.5 billion, or 17.9%, in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to favorable commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network, slightly offset by higher personnel related costs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin increased to 26.6% in 2009 from 22.4% in 2008. Despite an overall increase on a year over year basis, the gross margin trended downward as 2009 progressed driven by the increasing intense competitive environment we experienced. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy drove material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Initially, this margin compression was absorbed by retailers, but as the year progressed, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions. In addition, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, further impacting profitability. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses were relatively flat during the year compared to prior year. Distribution costs declined due to relatively lower fuel costs and strategic initiatives across our distribution network which was offset by higher professional fees primarily related to strategic initiatives, particularly supply chain and information technology, increased advertising expenses as well as higher personnel related costs. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,633.0 100.0 % $ 1,436.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,058.2 64.8 961.1 66.9 Gross profit 574.8 35.2 475.8 33.1 Operating costs and expenses 444.5 27.2 363.3 25.3 Total operating income $ 130.3 8.0 % $ 112.5 7.8 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $196.1 million, or 13.6%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong sales growth in our creamers business, partially offset by the impact of certain businesses exited during 2009. 38 Table of Contents Throughout 2009, we experienced continued softness in the organic milk category. We believe milk consumers were price sensitive to premium priced categories, including organic products due to the recessionary environment. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $97.1 million in 2009 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and continued lower commodity costs, partially offset by the impact of lower sales volumes, driven by the exited businesses, and the impact of our productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $81.2 million during 2009 compared to 2008, driven by the Alpro acquisition and higher marketing spending driven principally by the launch year marketing investments related to the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. These increases were partially offset by productivity initiatives which impacted distribution costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources General We believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our amended and restated $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, which we expect to renew under similar 364 day terms at the end of the current term, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to meet our future cash requirements. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. At December 31, 2010, we had $4.1 billion of outstanding debt obligations, cash on hand of $92.0 million and an additional $1.4 billion of combined available future borrowing capacity under our existing senior secured revolving credit facility and receivables backed facility. Of this combined amount, based on our outstanding indebtedness and the maximum permitted leverage ratio in effect at December 31, 2010, and assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances, our then current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. 39 Table of Contents Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Change (In thousands) Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 525,700 $ 658,079 $ (132,379 ) Investing activities (293,575 ) (840,068 ) 546,493 Financing activities (217,692 ) 192,765 (410,457 ) Discontinued operations (operating and investing) 32,886 1,950 30,936 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (502 ) 808 (1,310 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 46,817 $ 13,534 $ 33,283 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 mainly due to the impact of lower net earnings. In addition, fluctuations in our working capital resulted in an overall decrease in cash driven by a decrease in the source of cash from accounts receivable, which was partially offset by a reduction in the use of cash for accounts payable. During 2009, accounts receivable balances declined significantly due to the pass through of declining commodity prices. During 2010, accounts receivable balances remained relatively stable. Additionally, income tax payments were $150.7 million lower in 2010 compared to 2009 due to accelerated tax deductions and lower earnings. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2010 primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, which was partially offset by higher payments for capital expenditures. During 2010, no cash was used for acquisitions compared to $581.2 million used in 2009, primarily for the acquisition of Alpro, as well as other smaller acquisitions. In 2010, we funded $302.0 million in capital expenditures compared to $267.7 million in 2009 primarily in connection with the capital investments under our strategy to optimize the fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2010 primarily due to debt repayments and deferred financing costs as a result of costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility. In 2009 we issued 25.4 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of $444.7 million. 40 Table of Contents Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of an original combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. As described more fully in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we amended and restated the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and further amended this agreement on December 9, 2010. The terms of the agreement were modified in the aggregate as follows: Extension of the maturity dates for certain principal amounts as summarized in the key terms table below; Amendment of the maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in our credit agreement) to permit minimum and maximum ratios of: For Quarters Ending During the Period Minimum InterestCoverage Ratio Maximum LeverageRatio Maximum SeniorSecured LeverageRatio Amendment effective date December 31, 2011 2.50 5.75 4.25 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2012 2.75 5.50 3.75 March 31, 2013 June 30, 2013 3.00 5.25 3.50 September 30, 2013 and thereafter 3.00 4.50 3.50 Amendment of certain other terms, including, but not limited to, leverage based limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, acquisitions and prepayments of senior notes; and Increase in the undrawn costs of the extended portion of the revolving credit facility and the drawn costs of the extended portions of the revolving credit facility, term loan A and term loan B. The following table summarizes the key terms of the senior secured credit facility as of December 31, 2010: Principal(2) MaturityDate Applicable BaseRate Margin(3) ApplicableLIBOR RateMargin(3) QuarterlyCommitment Feeon UndrawnAmounts Revolving Credit Facility $225 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% 0.125% 0.375% $1.28 billion April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% 0.375% 0.500% Term Loan A $150 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% $695 million April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% Term Loan B $687 million April 2, 2014 0.375% 0.75% 1.375% 1.75% $490 million April 2, 2016 2.00% 2.25% 3.00% 3.25% $558 million April 2, 2017(1) 2.25% 2.50% 3.25% 3.50% (1) Subject to the condition that we meet certain leverage, debt, cash or credit rating tests following December 31, 2015. However, if at least one of these tests is not met, the maturity date will be April 2, 2016. (2) Amounts for term loan A and term loan B represent outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2010. The revolving credit facility principal amount represents the total original borrowings available to us under the facility. (3) The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. 41 Table of Contents Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we were engaged as of April 2007, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million and not greater than $100 million if our leverage ratio is greater than 4.50 times, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our leverage ratio is below 4.50 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. Our leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 5.13 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters was 5.75 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. As described in more detail in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Our interest coverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.45 times consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters. The minimum permitted interest coverage ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters was 2.50 times as of December 31, 2010 and increases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated interest expense is comprised of consolidated interest expense paid or payable in cash, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but excluding non cash losses from foreign exchange translations or swap agreements and third party fees and expenses related to acquisitions, investments, dispositions and the incurrence or early extinguishment of indebtedness. Additionally, the December 9, 2010 amendment of our credit agreement resulted in the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio, as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.80 times consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted 42 Table of Contents senior secured leverage ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters allowed was 4.25 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the leverage ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding senior secured indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the senior secured leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants, and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance for the foreseeable future. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels, except as described above with respect to determining the maturity date of the 2017 tranche of term loan B. At December 31, 2010, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.0 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.6 billion at December 31, 2009), which consisted of $2.6 billion in term loan borrowings and $453 million under the revolver. The decrease of $563 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to the prepayment of approximately $384 million in outstanding 2014 Term Loan A borrowings as a result of the Senior Notes Offering discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, quarterly payments on our term loan A and term loan B, and a lower outstanding balance on our revolver borrowings at December 31, 2010 in comparison to December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, there were $171.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 24, 2011, $106.2 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Receivables backed Facility In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million 364 day receivables backed facility in which current availability is subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. This facility is scheduled to mature September 30, 2011, and we intend and expect to renew the facility at the end of the current term under similar terms currently established. As of December 31, 2010, the receivables backed facility had $496.5 million available, of which zero was drawn. Our average daily balance under this facility during 2010 was $175.3 million. At February 24, 2011, $339.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Senior Notes & Capital Leases Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2010 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2016, $400 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2018, $142 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes due 2017 and $7.7 million of capital lease and other obligations. Alpro Revolving Credit Facility On July 2, 2009, our newly acquired subsidiary, Alpro N.V. entered into a two year multi currency revolving credit facility for borrowings in an amount not to exceed 20 million (or its currency equivalent). In December, 2009, we reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 10 million (or its currency equivalent) and in December 2010, we further reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 1 million (or its currency equivalent). The facility is unsecured and is guaranteed by Dean Foods Company and 43 Table of Contents various Alpro N.V. subsidiaries. Use of proceeds under the facility is for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Alpro N.V. The subsidiary revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to 1 million of letters of credit. No principal payments are due under the subsidiary revolving credit facility until maturity on July 2, 2011. At December 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. Contractual Obligations and Other Long Term Liabilities In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase, lease and other contractual obligations at December 31, 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Payments Due by Period Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,033.5 $ 167.5 $ 290.5 $ 231.7 $ 1,337.7 $ 10.5 $ 995.6 Dean Foods Company senior notes(1) 900.0 900.0 Subsidiary senior notes(1) 142.0 142.0 Capital lease obligations and other 7.7 6.7 0.6 0.4 Purchase obligations(2) 1,007.3 635.4 175.4 112.0 14.8 14.3 55.4 Operating leases 502.1 123.0 98.2 78.2 62.0 46.5 94.2 Interest payments(3) 1,032.9 242.1 194.2 170.9 130.2 118.5 177.0 Benefit payments(4) 325.1 22.3 21.0 21.5 22.1 21.3 216.9 Litigation settlement(5) 30.0 30.0 Total(6) $ 6,980.6 $ 1,227.0 $ 779.9 $ 614.7 $ 1,566.8 $ 211.1 $ 2,581.1 (1) Represents face value. (2) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (3) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on our interest rate swaps based on the notional amounts of the swaps and the LIBOR forward curve at December 31, 2010 and interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2010. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Future interest payments on our interest rate swaps will vary based on the interest rates in effect at each respective settlement date. Excluded from the table above are expected cash receipts related to the interest rate swaps. (4) Represents expected future benefit obligations of $307.5 million and $17.6 million related to our pension plans and postretirement healthcare plans, respectively. (5) Represents the agreement to settle all claims in a class action antitrust complaint reached in the fourth quarter of 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the agreement. (6) The table above excludes our liability for uncertain tax positions of $58.2 million because the timing of any related cash payments cannot be reasonably estimated. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted 44 Table of Contents by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In 2010 and 2009, we made contributions of $10.3 million and $24.5 million, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2010, we recorded non cash pension expense of $13.0 million, of which $11.3 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $21.1 million in 2009, of which $20.2 million was attributable to periodic expense and $0.9 million was attributable to settlements. Almost 90% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.00% at December 31, 2009 to 5.28% at December 31, 2010, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2011. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. In July 2009, the Investment Committee adopted a new long term investment policy for the master trust that decreases the expected relative holdings of equity securities that targets investments in equity securities at 59% of the portfolio, fixed income at 37%, cash equivalents at 3% and other investments of 1%. At December 31, 2010, our master trust was invested as follows: investments in equity securities were at 62%; investments in fixed income were at 34%; cash equivalents were at less than 1% and other investments were at 4%. Given meaningful equity returns in the fourth quarter of 2010, these investment percentages were slightly different from the Investment Committee targets noted above, and we rebalanced our master trust investments accordingly during the first quarter of 2011 in order to be consistent with those targets. See Notes 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas (DFA) 33.8% interest in our operations. In connection with that transaction, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to DFA in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is a primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may 45 Table of Contents prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our related milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not terminated, and we have not materially breached, any of our related milk supply agreements with DFA related to the promissory note. We have previously terminated unrelated supply agreements with respect to several plants that were supplied by DFA. In connection with our goals of accelerated cost control and increased supply chain efficiency, we continue to evaluate our sources of raw milk supply. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2011, we intend to invest a total of approximately $325 to $350 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities under our strategy to optimize our fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs and to increase production capacity at WhiteWave Alpro to meet demand. We expect cash interest to be approximately $246 million to $254 million based upon current debt levels and projected forward interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $15 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $174.3 million. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to meeting certain terms and conditions as outlined in our credit agreements. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio of 4.25 times and maximum leverage ratio of 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2010, the senior secured leverage ratio was 3.80 times and the leverage ratio was 5.13 times. The maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio and leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 3.75 times and 5.50 times, respectively, as of March 31, 2012. These reduced leverage ratio requirements could limit our ability to incur additional debt. At December 31, 2010, $496.5 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $875.7 million also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Availability under the receivables backed facility is calculated using the current receivables balance for the seller entities, less adjustments for vendor concentration limits, reserve requirements, and other adjustments as described in the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement. Availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility is calculated using the total commitment amount less current borrowings and issued and outstanding letters of credit. Assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, of this combined amount, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 24, 2011, approximately $1.3 billion was available under the 46 Table of Contents receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Of this combined amount, assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, approximately $492 million was available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars products is conventional milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). In general, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar changes the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases, primarily with respect to diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 90% of our organic raw milk from a network of more than 550 family dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to five years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry regularly experiences significant swings in supply and demand based on consumer economic factors. Retail price increases on private label products generally lag that of branded products, causing retail price gaps to expand. Such gaps can create challenges where increasing costs of food and energy drive up the cost of organic milk faster than retail prices can be increased. During 2010, we experienced increased demand for our organic products particularly our Horizon Organic brand, and we have taken actions to meet the rising demand. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply, and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. 47 Table of Contents Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we began augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with nonGenetically Modified Organism (non GMO) soybeans. The launch of these new products has shifted a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. Fuel and Resin Costs Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases diesel fuel to operate its extensive DSD system and incurs fuel surcharge expense related to the products it delivers through third party carriers. WhiteWave Alpro primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Another significant raw material we use is resin, which is a fossil fuel based product used to make plastic bottles. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. In 2010, we have experienced a sharp increase in the price of resin, particularly during the fourth quarter of 2010. The prices of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. We expect that fuel and resin costs will continue to fluctuate throughout 2011. Competitive Environment Supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. During 2010, this margin compression was increasingly absorbed by dairy processors. Also, these industry dynamics continue to drive private label market share gains over branded products, which impacted the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. These pressures have been exacerbated by volume declines across dairy and non dairy product categories. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. Margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. Additionally, there has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, competition has intensified as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. Currently, the dairy industry has experienced widespread price renegotiations. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. 48 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates In certain circumstances, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates, as well as our critical accounting policies (see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets result primarily from acquisitions and primarily include trademarks with finite lives and indefinite lives and customer related intangible assets. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that the carrying value is recoverable. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed our annual impairment testing using the methods described above and did not record an impairment charge. Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to initially value intangible assets upon acquisition and to evaluate those assets and goodwill for impairment going forward. We determine fair value using widely acceptable valuation techniques including discounted cash flows, market multiples analyses and relief from royalty analyses. Assumptions used in our valuations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. We believe that the assumptions used in valuing our intangible assets and in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in different calculations of fair values that could result in a material impairment charge. The fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds its related carrying value by approximately $229 million or 6.4%, $367 million or 65.1%, $856 million or 80.4% and $33 million or 7.8% for Fresh Dairy Direct, Morningstar, WhiteWave and Alpro, respectively. Increasing our discount rates assumed in these analyses by 0.25% would not have resulted in an impairment charge. The terminal growth rates utilized in calculating the fair value of our reporting units (ranging from 1.8% to 3.5%) is dependent upon meeting our internal projections and operating plans, as well as other factors and assumptions. A 0.25% reduction in the terminal growth rate assumptions used could result in a material impairment charge. While the results of our testing indicate that each of our reporting units has a fair value in excess of its carrying value and no impairment charge was required, the excess of the reporting unit fair values over carrying values, specifically with 49 Table of Contents Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ respect to our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, is significantly less than in prior years. While testing results do not indicate an impairment charge, we can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results or our assumptions. Property, Plant and Equipment We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Our property, plant and equipment totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Self Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. At December 31, 2010 we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $187.3 million, including both current and long term liabilities. During 2010, we reduced our property and casualty insurance reserves by $20 million, primarily due to a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors, which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. If actual results differ from our assumptions, we could be exposed to material gains or losses. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities could affect net earnings by approximately $11.2 million. 50 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. The effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate post retirement medical obligation by approximately $1.1 million. Stock Based Compensation Plans Options and RSUs We provide a number of option and other stock based compensation plans to our eligible employees. We determine the fair value of our stock option and other stock based awards at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Cash Awards Linked to our Stock Price Our Cash Performance Unit (CPU) awards are designed to link compensation of certain executive officers and other key employees to our performance over a three year period. The performance metric, as defined in the award, is the performance of our stock price relative to that of a peer group of companies. The range of payout under the award is between 0% and 200% and is payable in cash at the end of the performance period, which is generally three years. Due to our relative stock performance during 2010, we have no liability associated with our 2010 CPU awards. Option pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions we may be exposed to changes in stock based compensation expense that could be material. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 would have affected net earnings by approximately $2.2 million. Additionally, remeasurements of the fair value of our CPUs as a result of fluctuations in our stock price as compared to our peers can cause variability in our results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Income Taxes A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. A valuation allowance is recorded against a deferred tax asset if it is not more likely than not that the asset will be realized. At December 31, 2010, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $58.2 million, and our valuation allowance was $7.7 million. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws, regulations, and taxing authority rulings as well as to the expiration of statutes of limitations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, several factors are considered in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets, including the remaining years available for carryforward, the tax laws for the applicable jurisdictions, the future profitability of the specific business units, and tax planning strategies. Our judgments and estimates concerning uncertain tax positions may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. Our judgments and estimates concerning realizability of deferred tax assets could change if any of the evaluation factors change. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate could increase or decrease in any period, impacting our net earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements for the portion of this standard that is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. The amendments in this standard are intended to improve the disclosures around fair value measurements. This standard requires disclosure of significant transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, as well as the reasons for the transfers. It also clarifies existing disclosures related to the level of disaggregation in the disclosures, as well as the required disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption of this portion of the standard has not had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, a portion of the standard is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010. This portion requires disclosure of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements. This portion of the standard is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). This standard changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not change our accounting for our investment in our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Transfer of Financial Assets. This standard requires more disclosure of information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where companies have continuing exposure to the risk related to transferred financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires special disclosures. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of New Federal Legislation The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010, and on March 30, 2010 the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 became law 52 Table of Contents (together the Act). The enactment of this legislation has not had, nor is it expected to have, a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk due to commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to these fluctuations. Commodity Price Fluctuations We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, including milk, organic and non GMO soybeans, butterfat, sweeteners and other commodity costs used in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of our products, including utilities, natural gas, resin and diesel fuel. In order to secure adequate supplies of materials and bring greater stability to the cost of ingredients and their related manufacturing, packaging and distribution, we routinely enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers. Under the forward purchase contracts, we commit to purchasing agreed upon quantities of ingredients and commodities at agreed upon prices at specified future dates. The outstanding purchase commitment for these commodities at any point in time typically ranges from one months to one years anticipated requirements, depending on the ingredient or commodity. These contracts are considered normal purchases and sales. In addition to entering into forward purchase contracts, from time to time we may purchase over the counter contracts with our qualified banking partners or exchange traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials that are ingredients of our products or components of such ingredients. Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a notional value of $34.3 million as of December 31, 2010. These contracts resulted in net unrealized gains of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2010. At the end of 2010, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse movement in the underlying commodity price, would have resulted in an unrealized net loss of $1.1 million. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuation, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our commodity related hedges. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows that arise from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements, including our forward starting swap agreements that have an effective date of March 31, 2012, provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We believe the credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, if any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in 53 Table of Contents interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency Fluctuations Historically, our international operations represented less than 1% of our sales and long lived assets. With our acquisition of Alpro in July 2009, the relative percentage of our international sales increased slightly. Sales in foreign countries, as well as certain expenses related to those sales, are transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk is primarily limited to the Euro and the British Pound. We may, from time to time, employ derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates or enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our net investment and intercompany payable or receivable balances in foreign operations. During 2010, we did not enter into any foreign currency related contracts. 54 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview We are one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. WhiteWave Alpro markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy products, as well as other plant based beverages and soy food products, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages such as soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. Our Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. In the first quarter of 2010, our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker, changed the way he evaluates the performance of our operations, develops strategy and allocates capital resources. As a result, beginning in the first quarter of 2010, our Morningstar operations were aligned with our Fresh Dairy Direct operations, so that our two reporting segments consisted of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar and WhiteWave Alpro. This change reflects the divergence between the strategies and objectives of these two segments. Our value added branded operations at WhiteWave Alpro added scale with the acquisition of Alpro in July 2009 and are focused on driving growth through effective marketing and innovation. Our traditional dairy operations at Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are driven by a focus on cost and service leadership. We believe these revised segments have increased internal focus and offered management and investors improved visibility into the performance of the segments against their specific objectives. All segment results set forth herein have been recast to present results on a comparable basis. These changes had no impact on consolidated net sales or operating income. During the second quarter of 2010, we committed to a plan to sell the business operations of Rachels, which provides organic branded dairy based chilled yogurt, milk and related dairy products primarily in the United Kingdom. The sale of these operations was completed on August 4, 2010. The decision to sell these operations was part of our strategic growth plan and allows us to target our investments in growing our core dairy and branded businesses by divesting non core operations. All Rachels operations, previously reported within the WhiteWave Alpro segment, have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless stated otherwise, any reference to income statement items in these financial statements refers to results from continuing operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into two separate agreements to sell our Mountain High and private label yogurt operations, which are part of our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. We expect to recognize a gain related to the sale of both of these operations. On February 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Mountain High yogurt operations. We expect our private label operations sale to close in the first half of 2011. These operations did not meet the requirements to be accounted for as discontinued operations. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar is our largest segment, with approximately 84% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of branded and private label dairy case products, including milk, ice cream, cultured dairy products, creamers, ice cream mix and other dairy products, to retailers, distributors, foodservice outlets, educational institutions and governmental entities across the United States. Due to the perishable nature 29 Table of Contents of its products, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers locations in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. We believe that Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar sells its products primarily on a local or regional basis through its local and regional sales forces, although some national customer relationships are coordinated by a centralized corporate sales department. The dairy industry is a mature industry that has traditionally been characterized by slow to flat growth, low profit margins fragmentation and lack of network optimization. According to the USDA, per capita consumption of fluid milk continues to decline. Volume sales growth across the industry has declined recently. The continued recessionary environment has resulted in a significant segment of consumers who are cutting back on purchases of even the most essential items, which has had a pronounced impact on the fluid milk category. We have experienced a reduction in volumes in the industry and in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar business. We expect this trend to continue in the near term. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. In addition, supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. This margin compression is being absorbed by both retailers and dairy processors. These industry dynamics have driven private label market share gains over branded products, which is impacting the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. With unusually low pricing on private label gallons, our regionally branded products are exposed to significantly wider retail price gaps versus private label. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. In addition to these industry dynamics, we have faced challenges with our conventional milk costs as well. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. In response to this dynamic and significant competitive pressure, many processors, including us, are now placing an increased emphasis on cost reduction in an effort to increase margins. We made significant progress against such initiatives in 2009 and 2010 and intend to continue these efforts over the next three to five years. Defined strategies for network optimization and organizational changes are in process to improve performance and programs have been launched to reduce our total selling, general, and administrative costs. We remain focused on sustaining positive cash flow, net debt reduction and are reinvesting for the future in spite of the current challenging environment. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar has several competitors in each of our major product and geographic markets. Competition between dairy processors for shelf space with retailers is based primarily on price, service, quality and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar pays fees to customers for shelf space. Competition for consumer sales is based on a variety of factors such as brand recognition, price, taste preference and quality. Dairy products also compete with many other beverages and nutritional products for consumer sales. WhiteWave Alpro WhiteWave Alpros net sales were approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales in 2010. WhiteWave Alpro manufactures, develops, markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy related products, such as Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, The Organic Cow organic dairy milk, International Delight coffee creamers and LAND O LAKES creamers and fluid dairy products, and Silk plant based beverages including soy, almond and coconut milks and cultured soy products. WhiteWave Alpro also offers branded soy based beverages and food products in Europe and markets its products under the Alpro and 30 Table of Contents Provamel brands. Additionally, with our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture we have expanded the WhiteWave product footprint beyond the dairy case to capitalize on the chilled fruit based beverage opportunity with the introduction of Fruit2Day. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products to a variety of customers, including grocery stores, club stores, natural food stores, mass merchandisers, convenience stores, drug stores and foodservice outlets. WhiteWave Alpro sells its products primarily through its internal sales force and independent brokers. The majority of the WhiteWave Alpro products are delivered through warehouse delivery systems. WhiteWave Alpro has several competitors in each of its product markets. Competition to obtain shelf space with retailers for a particular product is based primarily on brand recognition and the expected or historical sales performance of the product compared to its competitors. In some cases, WhiteWave Alpro pays fees to retailers to obtain shelf space for a particular product. Competition for consumer sales is based on many factors, including brand recognition, price, taste preferences and quality. Consumer demand for soy, other plant based and organic beverages and foods has grown in recent years due to growing consumer confidence in the health benefits attributable to these products, and we believe WhiteWave Alpro has a leading position in the these category. Recent Developments See Part I Item 1. Business Developments Since January 1, 2010 for recent developments that have impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The following table presents certain information concerning our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,122.9 100.0 % $ 11,113.8 100.0 % $ 12,361.3 100.0 % Cost of sales 9,117.0 75.2 8,008.6 72.1 9,438.6 76.4 Gross profit(1) 3,005.9 24.8 3,105.2 27.9 2,922.7 23.6 Operating costs and expenses: Selling and distribution 1,904.5 15.7 1,818.8 16.4 1,802.2 14.6 General and administrative 629.6 5.2 623.8 5.6 482.4 3.9 Amortization of intangibles 11.3 0.1 9.6 0.1 9.8 0.1 Facility closing and reorganization costs 30.8 0.3 30.2 0.3 22.8 0.2 Other expense 30.0 0.2 Total operating costs and expenses 2,606.2 21.5 2,482.4 22.4 2,317.2 18.8 Operating income $ 399.7 3.3 % $ 622.8 5.5 % $ 605.5 4.8 % (1) As disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we include certain shipping and handling costs within selling and distribution expense. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to other entities that present all shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales. 31 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2010 2009 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 10,184.9 $ 9,480.8 $ 704.1 7.4 % WhiteWave Alpro 1,938.0 1,633.0 305.0 18.7 Total $ 12,122.9 $ 11,113.8 $ 1,009.1 9.1 The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 157.7 $ (365.7 ) $ 912.1 $ 704.1 WhiteWave Alpro 172.7 106.9 25.4 305.0 Total $ 330.4 $ (258.8 ) $ 937.5 $ 1,009.1 Net sales Consolidated net sales increased $1.0 billion during 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs, acquisitions and an increase in sales volumes of our branded products, particularly International Delight, Horizon Organic and Silk. These increases were partially offset by highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as lower sales volumes across all categories in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales increased $1.1 billion, or 13.8%, in 2010 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher commodity prices, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, offset by lower overall volumes in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of 2009 that continued throughout 2010. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $123.8 million, or 5.0%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $85.7 million driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $36.0 million related to Alpro, higher freight and fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs and related distribution costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such outside storage costs to decrease in 2011 as we realize additional capacity as a result of our capital expenditures at WhiteWave. These increases were partly offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $5.8 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions, including $24.5 million for Alpro, and higher consulting fees, offset by lower employee related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. 32 Table of Contents Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $0.6 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. Other expense represents a $30.0 million charge related to a pending class action antitrust settlement (see Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding this charge). Other (Income) Expense Excluding $12.3 million in financing costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and December 9, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.5 million from the prior year, primarily due to lower average debt balances, lower interest rates during the first six months of 2010 and the expiration of $800 million notional amounts of fixed interest rate swap agreements in the first quarter of 2010. In 2009 we recorded a $4.2 million gain related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. We expect to see an increase in interest expense in 2011 as a result of higher average interest rates, due to the June 30, 2010 credit facility amendment and the December 16, 2010 senior notes issuance. This higher interest expense will be slightly offset by expected lower average debt balances resulting from free cash flow generation and the net proceeds from the sale of our Mountain High and private label yogurt businesses, as well as the expiration of certain of our fixed interest rate swap agreements. The sale of our Mountain High business closed February 1, 2011, and we expect to close the sale of our private label yogurt business in the first half of 2011. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 48.6% for 2010 compared to 39.9% in 2009. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. Additionally, in 2010, we identified unrecoverable deferred tax asset balances associated with errors primarily related to periods prior to 2007. Since the effects of the errors are not material to the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2010 and were not material to any individual year prior to 2010, we adjusted our deferred tax assets and recorded a non cash income tax charge of $10.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of this correction, the effective tax rate for 2010 was 41.4%, which was higher than 2009 primarily as a result of lower net earnings. Our 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates were both negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 10,184.9 100.0 % $ 9,480.8 100.0 % Cost of sales 7,873.3 77.3 6,961.4 73.4 Gross profit 2,311.6 22.7 2,519.4 26.6 Operating costs and expenses 1,807.1 17.7 1,762.7 18.6 Total operating income $ 504.5 5.0 % $ 756.7 8.0 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales increased $704.1 million, or 7.4%, during 2010 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the pass through of higher commodity costs and the impact of acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by the impact of highly promotional retail pricing and wholesale pricing pressures, as well as overall volume declines across all product categories. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy has driven material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price 33 Table of Contents points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Beginning in 2009 and throughout 2010, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions, which were originally absorbed by retailers. Although we expect these trends to continue, we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2010 compared to 2009: Year Ended December 31* 2010 2009 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 15.35 $ 11.48 33.7 % Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 9.26 7.40 25.1 Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.83 1.24 47.6 Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 9.85 7.09 38.9 Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.86 1.26 47.6 * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales increased $911.9 million, or 13.1%, in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk and Class II butterfat costs, slightly offset by lower personnel costs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin decreased to 22.7% in 2010 from 26.6% in 2009. Gross margins trended downward due to the increasingly intense competitive environment we have experienced. In addition to the increasing demands to absorb pricing concessions, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, exacerbated by weak volumes across dairy and non dairy product offerings, further impacting profitability. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers as well as our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. 34 Table of Contents Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses increased $44.4 million, or 2.5%, during the year compared to prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: Selling and distribution costs increased $28.2 million, primarily driven by increased fuel and freight costs. These costs were offset by a decrease in our self insurance reserve due to changes in loss development factors as a result of a continuous decline in claims and better claims management, as well as benefits from efficiencies gained in our distribution network with route reductions and lower fuel usage. We expect 2011 expenses related to self insurance to increase next year. General and administrative costs increased $15.2 million due to an increase in supply chain management and higher consulting fees, offset by lower personnel related costs, largely due to decreased short term incentive compensation. We expect 2011 expenses related to short term incentive compensation to increase next year. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,938.0 100.0 % $ 1,633.0 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,242.7 64.1 1,058.2 64.8 Gross profit 695.3 35.9 574.8 35.2 Operating costs and expenses 529.1 27.3 444.5 27.2 Total operating income $ 166.2 8.6 % $ 130.3 8.0 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $305.0 million, or 18.7%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong volume growth in our branded products. Excluding the impact of our Alpro acquisition, net sales increased $132.3 million, or 8.1%. Sales for the creamers business, which includes both International Delight and LAND O LAKES, grew low double digits compared to 2009. Horizon Organic brand sales also grew low double digits while Silk brand sales grew high single digits compared to the prior year. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $184.5 million, or 17.4%, in 2010 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by a $92.9 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition higher sales volumes and higher input costs. Gross Profit WhiteWave Alpros gross profit increased to 35.9% in 2010 from 35.2% in 2009, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition, strong volume growth, a favorable brand mix, as well as benefits from productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $84.6 million, or 19.0%, during 2010 compared to 2009. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses are summarized below: Selling and distribution costs increased $50.1 million, driven by a $36.0 million increase due to the Alpro acquisition, volume growth and higher fuel costs. In addition, WhiteWave experienced increased outside storage facility costs due to capacity constraints. We expect such costs to remain at higher levels as we work to add additional production and storage capacity. General and administrative costs increased $33.8 million, primarily driven by a $24.5 million increase due to our Alpro acquisition. 35 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales by segment are shown in the table below. Net Sales 2009 2008 $Increase/(Decrease) %Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 9,480.8 $ 10,924.4 $ (1,443.6 ) (13.2 )% WhiteWave Alpro 1,633.0 1,436.9 196.1 13.6 Total $ 11,113.8 $ 12,361.3 $ (1,247.5 ) (10.1 ) The change in net sales was due to the following: Change in Net Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Acquisitions Volume Pricingand ProductMix Changes TotalIncrease/(Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar $ 159.0 $ (61.2 ) $ (1,541.4 ) $ (1,443.6 ) WhiteWave Alpro 176.4 (31.2 ) 50.9 196.1 Total $ 335.4 $ (92.4 ) $ (1,490.5 ) $ (1,247.5 ) Net sales decreased $1.2 billion during 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower pricing in our Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar segment, as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Net sales in our WhiteWave Alpro segment increased as the Alpro acquisition more than offset the impact of the pass through of lower commodity costs to customers and slightly lower sales volume, coupled with the exit of several business relationships. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Cost of sales decreased $1.4 billion, or 15.2%, in 2009 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued favorable commodity prices, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network. Overall, commodity prices remained low compared to 2008 levels. Conventional milk prices were at historically low levels for most of 2009, with a fairly sharp increase in the fourth quarter of the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating expenses increased $165.2 million, or 7.1%, during the year compared to the prior year. Significant changes to operating costs and expenses include the following: General and administrative costs increased $141.4 million primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and investments in the capability build out of our supply chain, information technology and research and development functions that are foundational to our strategies; higher personnel related costs including incentive based compensation, share based compensation expense and additional headcount; higher professional fees and other outside services primarily related to our strategic initiatives, as well as higher transaction related costs. Selling and distribution costs increased $16.6 million driven by an increase in marketing spend, especially in the fourth quarter, on our nationally branded products at WhiteWave, higher expenses attributable to our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture and the impact of our recent Alpro acquisition, partially offset by lower fuel costs and benefits from our strategic initiatives across our distribution network. Net facility closing and reorganization costs increased $7.4 million. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our facility closing and reorganization activities. 36 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense Interest expense decreased to $246.5 million in 2009 from $308.2 million in 2008, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates during 2009 compared to the prior year. Additionally, in 2009, a $4.2 million gain was recognized related to a Euro based forward currency contract related to the Alpro acquisition. Income Taxes Income tax expense was recorded at an effective rate of 39.9% for 2009 compared to 38.6% in 2008. Our effective tax rate varies primarily based on the relative earnings of our business units. In 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the exclusion of the tax benefit attributable to our non controlling interest in the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. In 2008, our effective tax rate was positively impacted by the settlement of taxing authority examinations and the effects of state tax law changes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Results by Segment Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar The key performance indicators of Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar are sales volumes, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 9,480.8 100.0 % $ 10,924.4 100.0 % Cost of sales 6,961.4 73.4 8,480.7 77.6 Gross profit 2,519.4 26.6 2,443.7 22.4 Operating costs and expenses 1,762.7 18.6 1,762.7 16.2 Total operating income $ 756.7 8.0 % $ 681.0 6.2 % Net Sales Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars net sales decreased 13.2% during 2009 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower pricing as significantly lower commodity costs were passed through to customers. Recent acquisitions and solid execution drove higher fluid milk sales volumes of approximately 2.7%, which were more than offset by lower sales volumes in other products for an overall volume decline of 0.6%. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar generally increases or decreases the prices of its fluid dairy products on a monthly basis in correlation to fluctuations in the costs of raw materials, packaging supplies and delivery costs. However, in some cases, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the means and or timing of price increases. This can have a negative impact on Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars profitability. The following table sets forth the average monthly Class I mover and its components, as well as the average monthly Class II minimum prices for raw skim milk and butterfat for 2009 compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31* 2009 2008 % Change Class I mover(1) $ 11.48 $ 18.00 (36.2 )% Class I raw skim milk mover(1)(2) 7.40 12.94 (42.8 ) Class I butterfat mover(2)(3) 1.24 1.57 (21.0 ) Class II raw skim milk minimum(1)(4) 7.09 11.13 (36.3 ) Class II butterfat minimum(3)(4) 1.26 1.57 (19.7 ) * The prices noted in this table are not the prices that we actually pay. The federal order minimum prices applicable at any given location for Class I raw skim milk or Class I butterfat are based on the Class I mover prices plus a location differential. Class II prices noted in the table are federal minimum prices, applicable at all locations. Our actual cost also includes producer premiums, procurement costs and other related charges 37 Table of Contents that vary by location and supplier. Please see Part I Item 1. Business Government Regulation Milk Industry Regulation and Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs below for a more complete description of raw milk pricing. (1) Prices are per hundredweight. (2) We process Class I raw skim milk and butterfat into fluid milk products. (3) Prices are per pound. (4) We process Class II raw skim milk and butterfat into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream. Cost of Sales All expenses incurred to bring a product to completion are included in cost of sales, such as raw material, ingredient and packaging costs; labor costs; and plant and equipment costs. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars cost of sales decreased $1.5 billion, or 17.9%, in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to favorable commodity prices experienced throughout the year, particularly raw milk costs, as well as benefits from our strategic initiatives across our manufacturing network, slightly offset by higher personnel related costs. Gross Profit Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars gross margin increased to 26.6% in 2009 from 22.4% in 2008. Despite an overall increase on a year over year basis, the gross margin trended downward as 2009 progressed driven by the increasing intense competitive environment we experienced. Changing consumer behavior with increased pricing sensitivity and focus on value in the challenging domestic economy drove material shifts across the retail grocery industry. Retailers began lowering their margins on milk to hit key price points and demonstrate strong value to customers in an effort to keep or win market share in the challenging environment. Initially, this margin compression was absorbed by retailers, but as the year progressed, we experienced an increasing demand to absorb pricing concessions. In addition, we experienced a continued shift from branded to private label products, further impacting profitability. These margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. Operating Costs and Expenses Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars operating costs and expenses were relatively flat during the year compared to prior year. Distribution costs declined due to relatively lower fuel costs and strategic initiatives across our distribution network which was offset by higher professional fees primarily related to strategic initiatives, particularly supply chain and information technology, increased advertising expenses as well as higher personnel related costs. WhiteWave Alpro The key performance indicators of WhiteWave Alpro are sales volumes, net sales dollars, gross profit and operating income. Year Ended December 31 2009 2008 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 1,633.0 100.0 % $ 1,436.9 100.0 % Cost of sales 1,058.2 64.8 961.1 66.9 Gross profit 574.8 35.2 475.8 33.1 Operating costs and expenses 444.5 27.2 363.3 25.3 Total operating income $ 130.3 8.0 % $ 112.5 7.8 % Net Sales Net sales of the WhiteWave Alpro segment increased $196.1 million, or 13.6%, driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and strong sales growth in our creamers business, partially offset by the impact of certain businesses exited during 2009. 38 Table of Contents Throughout 2009, we experienced continued softness in the organic milk category. We believe milk consumers were price sensitive to premium priced categories, including organic products due to the recessionary environment. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply in the short term and we remain focused on maintaining our leading banded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. Cost of Sales WhiteWave Alpros cost of sales increased $97.1 million in 2009 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by the impact of our Alpro acquisition and continued lower commodity costs, partially offset by the impact of lower sales volumes, driven by the exited businesses, and the impact of our productivity initiatives. Operating Costs and Expenses WhiteWave Alpros operating costs and expenses increased $81.2 million during 2009 compared to 2008, driven by the Alpro acquisition and higher marketing spending driven principally by the launch year marketing investments related to the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. These increases were partially offset by productivity initiatives which impacted distribution costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources General We believe that our cash on hand, coupled with future cash flows from operations and other available sources of liquidity, including our amended and restated $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility and our $600 million receivables backed facility, which we expect to renew under similar 364 day terms at the end of the current term, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to meet our future cash requirements. Our anticipated uses of cash include capital expenditures, working capital needs, pension contributions and financial obligations. On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate and consider strategic acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, repurchasing shares of our common stock, as well as other transactions to create shareholder value and enhance financial performance. Such transactions may require cash expenditures or generate proceeds. At December 31, 2010, we had $4.1 billion of outstanding debt obligations, cash on hand of $92.0 million and an additional $1.4 billion of combined available future borrowing capacity under our existing senior secured revolving credit facility and receivables backed facility. Of this combined amount, based on our outstanding indebtedness and the maximum permitted leverage ratio in effect at December 31, 2010, and assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may, from time to time, raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances, our then current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. 39 Table of Contents Historical Cash Flow The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 Change (In thousands) Net cash flows from: Operating activities $ 525,700 $ 658,079 $ (132,379 ) Investing activities (293,575 ) (840,068 ) 546,493 Financing activities (217,692 ) 192,765 (410,457 ) Discontinued operations (operating and investing) 32,886 1,950 30,936 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (502 ) 808 (1,310 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 46,817 $ 13,534 $ 33,283 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 mainly due to the impact of lower net earnings. In addition, fluctuations in our working capital resulted in an overall decrease in cash driven by a decrease in the source of cash from accounts receivable, which was partially offset by a reduction in the use of cash for accounts payable. During 2009, accounts receivable balances declined significantly due to the pass through of declining commodity prices. During 2010, accounts receivable balances remained relatively stable. Additionally, income tax payments were $150.7 million lower in 2010 compared to 2009 due to accelerated tax deductions and lower earnings. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2010 primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, which was partially offset by higher payments for capital expenditures. During 2010, no cash was used for acquisitions compared to $581.2 million used in 2009, primarily for the acquisition of Alpro, as well as other smaller acquisitions. In 2010, we funded $302.0 million in capital expenditures compared to $267.7 million in 2009 primarily in connection with the capital investments under our strategy to optimize the fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2010 primarily due to debt repayments and deferred financing costs as a result of costs associated with the amendments of our senior secured credit facility. In 2009 we issued 25.4 million shares of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of $444.7 million. 40 Table of Contents Current Debt Obligations Senior Secured Credit Facility Our senior secured credit facility consists of an original combination of a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5 year senior secured term loan A and a $1.8 billion 7 year senior secured term loan B. As described more fully in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we amended and restated the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility on June 30, 2010 and further amended this agreement on December 9, 2010. The terms of the agreement were modified in the aggregate as follows: Extension of the maturity dates for certain principal amounts as summarized in the key terms table below; Amendment of the maximum permitted leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in our credit agreement) to permit minimum and maximum ratios of: For Quarters Ending During the Period Minimum InterestCoverage Ratio Maximum LeverageRatio Maximum SeniorSecured LeverageRatio Amendment effective date December 31, 2011 2.50 5.75 4.25 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2012 2.75 5.50 3.75 March 31, 2013 June 30, 2013 3.00 5.25 3.50 September 30, 2013 and thereafter 3.00 4.50 3.50 Amendment of certain other terms, including, but not limited to, leverage based limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, acquisitions and prepayments of senior notes; and Increase in the undrawn costs of the extended portion of the revolving credit facility and the drawn costs of the extended portions of the revolving credit facility, term loan A and term loan B. The following table summarizes the key terms of the senior secured credit facility as of December 31, 2010: Principal(2) MaturityDate Applicable BaseRate Margin(3) ApplicableLIBOR RateMargin(3) QuarterlyCommitment Feeon UndrawnAmounts Revolving Credit Facility $225 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% 0.125% 0.375% $1.28 billion April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% 0.375% 0.500% Term Loan A $150 million April 2, 2012 0.00% 0.75% 0.625% 1.75% $695 million April 2, 2014 1.00% 2.25% 2.00% 3.25% Term Loan B $687 million April 2, 2014 0.375% 0.75% 1.375% 1.75% $490 million April 2, 2016 2.00% 2.25% 3.00% 3.25% $558 million April 2, 2017(1) 2.25% 2.50% 3.25% 3.50% (1) Subject to the condition that we meet certain leverage, debt, cash or credit rating tests following December 31, 2015. However, if at least one of these tests is not met, the maturity date will be April 2, 2016. (2) Amounts for term loan A and term loan B represent outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2010. The revolving credit facility principal amount represents the total original borrowings available to us under the facility. (3) The senior secured credit facility bears interest, at our election, at the Alternative Base Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio or LIBOR plus a margin depending on our leverage ratio. Interest is payable quarterly or after the end of the applicable interest period. 41 Table of Contents Our credit agreement permits us to complete acquisitions that meet all of the following conditions without obtaining prior approval: (1) the acquired company is involved in the manufacture, processing and distribution of food or packaging products or any other line of business in which we were engaged as of April 2007, (2) the net cash purchase price for any single acquisition is not greater than $500 million and not greater than $100 million if our leverage ratio is greater than 4.50 times, (3) we acquire at least 51% of the acquired entity, (4) the transaction is approved by the board of directors or shareholders, as appropriate, of the target and (5) after giving effect to such acquisition on a pro forma basis, we would have been in compliance with all financial covenants. All other acquisitions must be approved in advance by the required lenders. The senior secured credit facility contains limitations on liens, investments and the incurrence of additional indebtedness, prohibits certain dispositions of property and restricts certain payments, including dividends. There are no restrictions on these certain payments, including dividends, when our leverage ratio is below 4.50 times. The senior secured credit facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our domestic assets including the assets of our subsidiaries, but excluding the capital stock of subsidiaries of the former Dean Foods Company (Legacy Dean), and the real property owned by Legacy Dean and its subsidiaries. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. Our leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 5.13 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters was 5.75 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. As described in more detail in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Our interest coverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.45 times consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters. The minimum permitted interest coverage ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the prior four consecutive quarters was 2.50 times as of December 31, 2010 and increases periodically as summarized in the ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated interest expense is comprised of consolidated interest expense paid or payable in cash, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but excluding non cash losses from foreign exchange translations or swap agreements and third party fees and expenses related to acquisitions, investments, dispositions and the incurrence or early extinguishment of indebtedness. Additionally, the December 9, 2010 amendment of our credit agreement resulted in the addition of a senior secured leverage ratio, as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 3.80 times consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. The maximum permitted 42 Table of Contents senior secured leverage ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters allowed was 4.25 times as of December 31, 2010 and decreases periodically as summarized in the leverage ratio table above. This ratio is calculated as the ratio of consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness, less restricted subsidiary cash up to $100 million, to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated funded senior secured indebtedness is comprised of the outstanding senior secured indebtedness of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Consolidated EBITDA is comprised of net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense and other non cash expenses, and add backs resulting from acquisition related non recurring charges of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the senior secured leverage ratio may include adjustments related to other charges reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and is calculated on a pro forma basis to give effect to any acquisitions, divestitures or relevant changes in the composition of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. We are currently in compliance with all financial covenants, and based on our internal projections we expect to maintain such compliance for the foreseeable future. The credit agreement contains standard default triggers, including without limitation: failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement, default on certain of our other debt, a change in control and certain other material adverse changes in our business. The credit agreement does not contain any requirements to maintain specific credit rating levels, except as described above with respect to determining the maturity date of the 2017 tranche of term loan B. At December 31, 2010, there were outstanding borrowings of $3.0 billion under our senior secured credit facility (compared to $3.6 billion at December 31, 2009), which consisted of $2.6 billion in term loan borrowings and $453 million under the revolver. The decrease of $563 million in our senior secured credit facility outstanding borrowings was primarily due to the prepayment of approximately $384 million in outstanding 2014 Term Loan A borrowings as a result of the Senior Notes Offering discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, quarterly payments on our term loan A and term loan B, and a lower outstanding balance on our revolver borrowings at December 31, 2010 in comparison to December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, there were $171.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving line that were issued but undrawn. As of February 24, 2011, $106.2 million was borrowed under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Receivables backed Facility In addition to our senior secured credit facility, we also have a $600 million 364 day receivables backed facility in which current availability is subject to a monthly borrowing base formula. This facility is scheduled to mature September 30, 2011, and we intend and expect to renew the facility at the end of the current term under similar terms currently established. As of December 31, 2010, the receivables backed facility had $496.5 million available, of which zero was drawn. Our average daily balance under this facility during 2010 was $175.3 million. At February 24, 2011, $339.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Senior Notes & Capital Leases Other indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2010 also included $500 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2016, $400 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Dean Foods Companys senior notes due 2018, $142 million face value of outstanding indebtedness under Legacy Deans senior notes due 2017 and $7.7 million of capital lease and other obligations. Alpro Revolving Credit Facility On July 2, 2009, our newly acquired subsidiary, Alpro N.V. entered into a two year multi currency revolving credit facility for borrowings in an amount not to exceed 20 million (or its currency equivalent). In December, 2009, we reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 10 million (or its currency equivalent) and in December 2010, we further reduced the facility to an amount not to exceed 1 million (or its currency equivalent). The facility is unsecured and is guaranteed by Dean Foods Company and 43 Table of Contents various Alpro N.V. subsidiaries. Use of proceeds under the facility is for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Alpro N.V. The subsidiary revolving credit facility will be available for the issuance of up to 1 million of letters of credit. No principal payments are due under the subsidiary revolving credit facility until maturity on July 2, 2011. At December 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. Contractual Obligations and Other Long Term Liabilities In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. The table below summarizes our obligations for indebtedness, purchase, lease and other contractual obligations at December 31, 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail about our lease obligations. Payments Due by Period Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter (In millions) Senior secured credit facility $ 3,033.5 $ 167.5 $ 290.5 $ 231.7 $ 1,337.7 $ 10.5 $ 995.6 Dean Foods Company senior notes(1) 900.0 900.0 Subsidiary senior notes(1) 142.0 142.0 Capital lease obligations and other 7.7 6.7 0.6 0.4 Purchase obligations(2) 1,007.3 635.4 175.4 112.0 14.8 14.3 55.4 Operating leases 502.1 123.0 98.2 78.2 62.0 46.5 94.2 Interest payments(3) 1,032.9 242.1 194.2 170.9 130.2 118.5 177.0 Benefit payments(4) 325.1 22.3 21.0 21.5 22.1 21.3 216.9 Litigation settlement(5) 30.0 30.0 Total(6) $ 6,980.6 $ 1,227.0 $ 779.9 $ 614.7 $ 1,566.8 $ 211.1 $ 2,581.1 (1) Represents face value. (2) Primarily represents commitments to purchase minimum quantities of raw materials used in our production processes, including diesel fuel, soybeans and organic raw milk. We enter into these contracts from time to time to ensure a sufficient supply of raw ingredients. In addition, we have contractual obligations to purchase various services that are part of our production process. (3) Includes fixed rate interest obligations, expected cash payments on our interest rate swaps based on the notional amounts of the swaps and the LIBOR forward curve at December 31, 2010 and interest on our variable rate debt based on the rates and balances in effect at December 31, 2010. Interest that may be due in the future on the variable rate portion of our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will vary based on the interest rate in effect at the time and the borrowings outstanding at the time. Future interest payments on our interest rate swaps will vary based on the interest rates in effect at each respective settlement date. Excluded from the table above are expected cash receipts related to the interest rate swaps. (4) Represents expected future benefit obligations of $307.5 million and $17.6 million related to our pension plans and postretirement healthcare plans, respectively. (5) Represents the agreement to settle all claims in a class action antitrust complaint reached in the fourth quarter of 2010. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the agreement. (6) The table above excludes our liability for uncertain tax positions of $58.2 million because the timing of any related cash payments cannot be reasonably estimated. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations We offer pension benefits through various defined benefit pension plans and also offer certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their eligible dependents upon the retirement of such employees. Reported costs of providing non contributory defined pension benefits and other postretirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates. For example, these costs are impacted 44 Table of Contents by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plan and earnings on plan assets. Pension and postretirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. In 2010 and 2009, we made contributions of $10.3 million and $24.5 million, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Changes made to the provisions of the plan may impact current and future pension costs. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. In accordance with Accounting Standards related to Employers Accounting for Pensions, changes in obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as pension costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. As such, significant portions of pension costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants. In 2010, we recorded non cash pension expense of $13.0 million, of which $11.3 million was attributable to periodic expense and $1.7 million was attributable to settlements compared to a total of $21.1 million in 2009, of which $20.2 million was attributable to periodic expense and $0.9 million was attributable to settlements. Almost 90% of our defined benefit plan obligations are frozen as to future participants or increases in accumulated benefits. Many of these obligations were acquired in prior strategic transactions. As an alternative to defined benefit plans, we offer defined contribution plans for eligible employees. The weighted average discount rate reflects the rate at which our defined benefit plan obligations could be effectively settled. The rate, which is updated annually with the assistance of an independent actuary, uses a model that reflects rates of a hypothetical portfolio of zero coupon, high quality corporate bonds that mirror our forecasted benefit plan payments in the future. The weighted average discount rate was decreased from 6.00% at December 31, 2009 to 5.28% at December 31, 2010, which will increase the net periodic benefit cost in 2011. Substantially all of our qualified pension plans are consolidated into one master trust. The investments held in the master trust are managed by an established Investment Committee with assistance from independent investment advisors. In July 2009, the Investment Committee adopted a new long term investment policy for the master trust that decreases the expected relative holdings of equity securities that targets investments in equity securities at 59% of the portfolio, fixed income at 37%, cash equivalents at 3% and other investments of 1%. At December 31, 2010, our master trust was invested as follows: investments in equity securities were at 62%; investments in fixed income were at 34%; cash equivalents were at less than 1% and other investments were at 4%. Given meaningful equity returns in the fourth quarter of 2010, these investment percentages were slightly different from the Investment Committee targets noted above, and we rebalanced our master trust investments accordingly during the first quarter of 2011 in order to be consistent with those targets. See Notes 14 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Other Commitments and Contingencies On December 21, 2001, in connection with our acquisition of Legacy Dean, we purchased Dairy Farmers of Americas (DFA) 33.8% interest in our operations. In connection with that transaction, we issued a contingent, subordinated promissory note to DFA in the original principal amount of $40 million. DFA is a primary supplier of raw milk, and the promissory note is designed to ensure that DFA has the opportunity to continue to supply raw milk to certain of our facilities until 2021, or be paid for the loss of that business. The promissory note has a 20 year term and bears interest based on the consumer price index. Interest will not be paid in cash, but will be added to the principal amount of the note annually, up to a maximum principal amount of $96 million. We may 45 Table of Contents prepay the note in whole or in part at any time, without penalty. The note will only become payable if we materially breach or terminate one of our related milk supply agreements with DFA without renewal or replacement. Otherwise, the note will expire at the end of 20 years, without any obligation to pay any portion of the principal or interest. Payments we make under this note, if any, will be expensed as incurred. We have not terminated, and we have not materially breached, any of our related milk supply agreements with DFA related to the promissory note. We have previously terminated unrelated supply agreements with respect to several plants that were supplied by DFA. In connection with our goals of accelerated cost control and increased supply chain efficiency, we continue to evaluate our sources of raw milk supply. We also have the following commitments and contingent liabilities, in addition to contingent liabilities related to ordinary course litigation, investigations and audits: certain indemnification obligations related to businesses that we have divested; certain lease obligations, which require us to guarantee the minimum value of the leased asset at the end of the lease; and selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our commitments and contingent obligations. Future Capital Requirements During 2011, we intend to invest a total of approximately $325 to $350 million in capital expenditures primarily for our existing manufacturing facilities and distribution capabilities under our strategy to optimize our fluid milk production network to increase profitability by reducing costs and to increase production capacity at WhiteWave Alpro to meet demand. We expect cash interest to be approximately $246 million to $254 million based upon current debt levels and projected forward interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. Cash interest excludes amortization of deferred financing fees and bond discounts of approximately $15 million. The portion of our long term debt due within the next 12 months totals $174.3 million. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to meeting certain terms and conditions as outlined in our credit agreements. We expect that cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and receivables backed facility will be sufficient to meet our future capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently have a maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio of 4.25 times and maximum leverage ratio of 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our receivables backed facility. As of December 31, 2010, the senior secured leverage ratio was 3.80 times and the leverage ratio was 5.13 times. The maximum permitted senior secured leverage ratio and leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables backed facility will decline to 3.75 times and 5.50 times, respectively, as of March 31, 2012. These reduced leverage ratio requirements could limit our ability to incur additional debt. At December 31, 2010, $496.5 million was available under the receivables backed facility, with $875.7 million also available under the senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the limitations of our credit agreements. Availability under the receivables backed facility is calculated using the current receivables balance for the seller entities, less adjustments for vendor concentration limits, reserve requirements, and other adjustments as described in the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement. Availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility is calculated using the total commitment amount less current borrowings and issued and outstanding letters of credit. Assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, of this combined amount, $484.1 million was then available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. At February 24, 2011, approximately $1.3 billion was available under the 46 Table of Contents receivables backed and revolving credit facilities, subject to the limitations of our credit agreement. Of this combined amount, assuming additional borrowings were not utilized to acquire incremental EBITDA, approximately $492 million was available to finance working capital and other general corporate purposes. Known Trends and Uncertainties Prices of Raw Milk and Other Inputs Conventional Raw Milk and Butterfat The primary raw material used in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstars products is conventional milk (which contains both raw milk and butterfat). The federal government and certain state governments set minimum prices for raw milk and those prices are set on a monthly basis. The regulated minimum prices differ based on how the raw milk is utilized. Raw milk processed into fluid milk is priced at the Class I price and raw milk processed into products such as cottage cheese, creams and creamers, ice cream and sour cream is priced at the Class II price. Generally, we pay the federal minimum prices for raw milk, plus certain producer premiums (or over order premiums) and location differentials. We also incur other raw milk procurement costs in some locations (such as hauling, field personnel, etc.). A change in the federal minimum price does not necessarily mean an identical change in our total raw milk costs as over order premiums may increase or decrease. This relationship is different in every region of the country and sometimes within a region based on supplier arrangements. However, in general, the overall change in our raw milk costs can be linked to the change in federal minimum prices. Because our Class II products typically have a higher fat content than that contained in raw milk, we also purchase bulk cream for use in some of our Class II products. Bulk cream is typically purchased based on a multiple of the AA butter price on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). In general, Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar changes the prices charged for Class I dairy products on a monthly basis, as the costs of raw milk, packaging, fuel and other materials fluctuate. Prices for some Class II products are also changed monthly while others are changed from time to time as circumstances warrant. However, there can be a lag between the timing of a raw material cost increase or decrease and a corresponding price change to our customers, especially in the case of Class II butterfat because Class II butterfat prices for each month are not announced by the government until after the end of that month. Also, in some cases, primarily with respect to diesel fuel and other non dairy inputs, we are competitively or contractually constrained with respect to the implementation of price changes. This can have a negative impact on our profitability and can cause volatility in our earnings. Our sales and operating profit margin fluctuate with the price of our raw materials and other inputs. Conventional milk prices continued to increase throughout 2010 compared to historic lows in 2009. We expect the Class I and Class II price to increase fairly dramatically through mid second quarter of 2011 and level off in the back half of the year. This significant increase in conventional milk prices is a result of limited supply due to production challenges coupled with strong global demand for both Class I and Class II inputs. Organic Raw Milk The primary raw material used in our organic milk based products is organic raw milk. We currently purchase approximately 90% of our organic raw milk from a network of more than 550 family dairy farmers across the United States. The balance of our organic raw milk is sourced from two farms that we own. We generally enter into supply agreements with organic dairy farmers with typical terms of two to five years, which obligate us to purchase certain minimum quantities of organic raw milk. The organic dairy industry regularly experiences significant swings in supply and demand based on consumer economic factors. Retail price increases on private label products generally lag that of branded products, causing retail price gaps to expand. Such gaps can create challenges where increasing costs of food and energy drive up the cost of organic milk faster than retail prices can be increased. During 2010, we experienced increased demand for our organic products particularly our Horizon Organic brand, and we have taken actions to meet the rising demand. We continue to monitor our position in the organic milk category including taking proactive steps to manage our supply, and we remain focused on maintaining our leading branded position as we balance market share considerations against profitability. 47 Table of Contents Soybeans Historically, the primary raw material used in our soy based products has been organic soybeans. However, in 2009, we began augmenting our current product line by offering customers and consumers soy based products manufactured with nonGenetically Modified Organism (non GMO) soybeans. The launch of these new products has shifted a substantial portion of our raw material requirements from organic to non GMO soybeans. Both organic soybeans and non GMO soybeans are generally available from several suppliers and we are not dependent on any single supplier for these raw materials. Fuel and Resin Costs Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases diesel fuel to operate its extensive DSD system and incurs fuel surcharge expense related to the products it delivers through third party carriers. WhiteWave Alpro primarily relies on third party carriers for product distribution and the transportation agreements typically adjust for movement in diesel prices. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Another significant raw material we use is resin, which is a fossil fuel based product used to make plastic bottles. Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar purchases approximately 28 million pounds of resin and bottles per month. In 2010, we have experienced a sharp increase in the price of resin, particularly during the fourth quarter of 2010. The prices of diesel and resin are subject to fluctuations based on changes in crude oil and natural gas prices. We expect that fuel and resin costs will continue to fluctuate throughout 2011. Competitive Environment Supermarkets and food retailers have utilized competitive pricing on dairy products to drive traffic volume and influence customer loyalty, which has significantly reduced their profit margins realized on the sale of such products. During 2010, this margin compression was increasingly absorbed by dairy processors. Also, these industry dynamics continue to drive private label market share gains over branded products, which impacted the growth and profitability of our regionally branded products. These pressures have been exacerbated by volume declines across dairy and non dairy product categories. Although we began to see price stabilization over the latter part of 2010, we expect these trends to continue. Margin pressures underscore the importance of our low cost strategy. We continue to focus on cost control and supply chain efficiency through cost cutting initiatives, improved effectiveness in the pass through of costs to our customers and our continued focus to drive productivity and efficiency within our operations. Additionally, there has been significant consolidation in the retail grocery industry in recent years, and this trend is continuing. As our customer base consolidates, competition has intensified as we compete for the business of fewer customers. In addition, there are several large regional grocery chains that have captive dairy operations. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in Fresh Dairy Direct Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. Currently, the dairy industry has experienced widespread price renegotiations. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. The loss of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We do not generally enter into sales agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. 48 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates In certain circumstances, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to use our judgment to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates, as well as our critical accounting policies (see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill and intangible assets result primarily from acquisitions and primarily include trademarks with finite lives and indefinite lives and customer related intangible assets. Perpetual trademarks and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually to ensure that the carrying value is recoverable. A perpetual trademark is impaired if its book value exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed our annual impairment testing using the methods described above and did not record an impairment charge. Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to initially value intangible assets upon acquisition and to evaluate those assets and goodwill for impairment going forward. We determine fair value using widely acceptable valuation techniques including discounted cash flows, market multiples analyses and relief from royalty analyses. Assumptions used in our valuations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal projections and operating plans. We believe that a trademark has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong sales and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual trademark criteria are not met, the trademarks are amortized over their expected useful lives. Determining the expected life of a trademark requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors including the competitive environment, trademark history and anticipated future trademark support. We believe that the assumptions used in valuing our intangible assets and in our impairment analysis are reasonable, but variations in any of the assumptions may result in different calculations of fair values that could result in a material impairment charge. The fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds its related carrying value by approximately $229 million or 6.4%, $367 million or 65.1%, $856 million or 80.4% and $33 million or 7.8% for Fresh Dairy Direct, Morningstar, WhiteWave and Alpro, respectively. Increasing our discount rates assumed in these analyses by 0.25% would not have resulted in an impairment charge. The terminal growth rates utilized in calculating the fair value of our reporting units (ranging from 1.8% to 3.5%) is dependent upon meeting our internal projections and operating plans, as well as other factors and assumptions. A 0.25% reduction in the terminal growth rate assumptions used could result in a material impairment charge. While the results of our testing indicate that each of our reporting units has a fair value in excess of its carrying value and no impairment charge was required, the excess of the reporting unit fair values over carrying values, specifically with 49 Table of Contents Estimate Description Judgment and or Uncertainty Potential Impact if Results Differ respect to our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, is significantly less than in prior years. While testing results do not indicate an impairment charge, we can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results or our assumptions. Property, Plant and Equipment We perform impairment tests when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment could include significant changes in business environment or planned closure of a facility. Our property, plant and equipment totaled $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating changes and to estimate future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Self Insurance Accruals We retain selected levels of property and casualty risks, primarily related to employee health care, workers compensation claims and other casualty losses. Many of these potential losses are covered under conventional insurance programs with third party carriers with high deductible limits. In other areas, we are self insured with stop loss coverages. At December 31, 2010 we recorded accrued liabilities related to these retained risks of $187.3 million, including both current and long term liabilities. During 2010, we reduced our property and casualty insurance reserves by $20 million, primarily due to a continuous decline in claims and better claims management. Accrued liabilities related to these retained risks are calculated based upon loss development factors, which contemplate a number of variables including claims history and expected trends. These loss development factors are developed by us in consultation with external insurance brokers and actuaries. If actual results differ from our assumptions, we could be exposed to material gains or losses. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities could affect net earnings by approximately $11.2 million. 50 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans We provide a range of benefits including pension and postretirement benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. We record annual amounts relating to these plans, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed investment rates of return, compensation increases, employee turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate. The effect of the modifications is generally recorded and amortized over future periods. Different assumptions could result in the recognition of different amounts of expense over different periods of time. A 0.25% reduction in the assumed rate of return on plan assets or a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase our annual pension expense by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 1% increase in assumed healthcare costs trends would increase the aggregate post retirement medical obligation by approximately $1.1 million. Stock Based Compensation Plans Options and RSUs We provide a number of option and other stock based compensation plans to our eligible employees. We determine the fair value of our stock option and other stock based awards at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Cash Awards Linked to our Stock Price Our Cash Performance Unit (CPU) awards are designed to link compensation of certain executive officers and other key employees to our performance over a three year period. The performance metric, as defined in the award, is the performance of our stock price relative to that of a peer group of companies. The range of payout under the award is between 0% and 200% and is payable in cash at the end of the performance period, which is generally three years. Due to our relative stock performance during 2010, we have no liability associated with our 2010 CPU awards. Option pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions we may be exposed to changes in stock based compensation expense that could be material. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 would have affected net earnings by approximately $2.2 million. Additionally, remeasurements of the fair value of our CPUs as a result of fluctuations in our stock price as compared to our peers can cause variability in our results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Income Taxes A liability for uncertain tax positions is recorded to the extent a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return does not meet certain recognition or measurement criteria. A valuation allowance is recorded against a deferred tax asset if it is not more likely than not that the asset will be realized. At December 31, 2010, our liability for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, was $58.2 million, and our valuation allowance was $7.7 million. Considerable management judgment is necessary to assess the inherent uncertainties related to the interpretations of complex tax laws, regulations, and taxing authority rulings as well as to the expiration of statutes of limitations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, several factors are considered in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets, including the remaining years available for carryforward, the tax laws for the applicable jurisdictions, the future profitability of the specific business units, and tax planning strategies. Our judgments and estimates concerning uncertain tax positions may change as a result of evaluation of new information, such as the outcome of tax audits or changes to or further interpretations of tax laws and regulations. Our judgments and estimates concerning realizability of deferred tax assets could change if any of the evaluation factors change. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate could increase or decrease in any period, impacting our net earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements for the portion of this standard that is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. The amendments in this standard are intended to improve the disclosures around fair value measurements. This standard requires disclosure of significant transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, as well as the reasons for the transfers. It also clarifies existing disclosures related to the level of disaggregation in the disclosures, as well as the required disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption of this portion of the standard has not had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, a portion of the standard is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010. This portion requires disclosure of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements. This portion of the standard is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). This standard changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not change our accounting for our investment in our Hero/WhiteWave joint venture. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Accounting Standards related to Accounting for Transfer of Financial Assets. This standard requires more disclosure of information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where companies have continuing exposure to the risk related to transferred financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires special disclosures. The adoption of this Accounting Standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of New Federal Legislation The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010, and on March 30, 2010 the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 became law 52 Table of Contents (together the Act). The enactment of this legislation has not had, nor is it expected to have, a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk due to commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. From time to time we enter into arrangements with other parties to hedge our exposure to these fluctuations. Commodity Price Fluctuations We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, including milk, organic and non GMO soybeans, butterfat, sweeteners and other commodity costs used in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of our products, including utilities, natural gas, resin and diesel fuel. In order to secure adequate supplies of materials and bring greater stability to the cost of ingredients and their related manufacturing, packaging and distribution, we routinely enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers. Under the forward purchase contracts, we commit to purchasing agreed upon quantities of ingredients and commodities at agreed upon prices at specified future dates. The outstanding purchase commitment for these commodities at any point in time typically ranges from one months to one years anticipated requirements, depending on the ingredient or commodity. These contracts are considered normal purchases and sales. In addition to entering into forward purchase contracts, from time to time we may purchase over the counter contracts with our qualified banking partners or exchange traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials that are ingredients of our products or components of such ingredients. Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a notional value of $34.3 million as of December 31, 2010. These contracts resulted in net unrealized gains of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2010. At the end of 2010, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse movement in the underlying commodity price, would have resulted in an unrealized net loss of $1.1 million. Although we may utilize forward purchase contracts and other instruments to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuation, such strategies do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our commodity related hedges. Interest Rate Fluctuations In order to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows that arise from changes in interest rates, we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements, including our forward starting swap agreements that have an effective date of March 31, 2012, provide hedges for loans under our senior secured credit facility by limiting or fixing the LIBOR interest rates specified in the senior secured credit facility until the indicated expiration dates. We are exposed to market risk under these arrangements due to the possibility of interest rates on our senior secured credit facility falling below the rates on our interest rate derivative agreements. We believe the credit risk under these arrangements is remote since the counterparties to our interest rate derivative agreements are major financial institutions. However, if any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements become unable to fulfill their obligation to us, we may lose the financial benefits of these arrangements. A majority of our debt obligations are hedged at fixed rates and the remaining debt obligations are currently at variable rates. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in 53 Table of Contents interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, the analysis indicated that such interest rate movement would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movement and our actual exposure and hedges. Foreign Currency Fluctuations Historically, our international operations represented less than 1% of our sales and long lived assets. With our acquisition of Alpro in July 2009, the relative percentage of our international sales increased slightly. Sales in foreign countries, as well as certain expenses related to those sales, are transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk is primarily limited to the Euro and the British Pound. We may, from time to time, employ derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates or enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our net investment and intercompany payable or receivable balances in foreign operations. During 2010, we did not enter into any foreign currency related contracts. 54 Table of Contents 
 
