Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The H.J. Heinz Company has been a pioneer in the food industry for 137 years and possesses one of the worlds best and most recognizable brands Heinz. While the Company has prospered for a long time, we are constantly finding new ways to capitalize on emerging consumer trends and better methods of doing business. Over the past several years, we have been making great progress in simplifying and focusing the Company on our core businesses. This strategic transformation has been a long journey that began with the spin off of our non core U.S. businesses in December 2002, and has continued throughout Fiscal 2006, culminating with the recently completed sales of our European Seafood and New Zealand Poultry businesses. We are very pleased that the portfolio realignment portion of the transformation strategy is now virtually finished. We have a few, non core, geographically isolated divestitures to complete, but with the majority of divestitures behind us, we can now sharpen our focus on growing our three core categories of Ketchup & Sauces, Meals & Snacks and Infant Food, where we have competitive advantages and leadership positions. The portfolio realignment has resulted in the divesture of approximately 20 non core product lines/businesses and has generated proceeds of approximately $1 billion. More than 90% of sales are in our three core categories and approximately 60% of sales are generated by our top 10 brands, making Heinz one of the most focused companies in the packaged food industry. Progress Update Over the past several years, the results of our strategic transformation have established a much stronger foundation upon which we believe the Company is positioned to build consistent, sustainable growth. Under this plan, we: Successfully divested non core U.S. businesses in a $2.3 billion, tax free spin off in Fiscal 2003. This simplified our U.S. business and enabled us to upgrade talent, processes and systems. We have driven growth through innovation in the iconic Heinz Ketchup brand, Smart Ones nutritional meals, Ore Ida frozen potatoes and Classico pasta sauces. Implemented a similar transformational plan in our Pacific operations of Australia and New Zealand. In these two business units, the Company simplified the structure, upgraded talent, streamlined processes and accelerated innovation. As a consequence, sales have grown at double digit rates and operating profits in the Pacific operations have more than doubled from Fiscal 2003 through 2006. From Fiscal 2002 through 2006, we have significantly outpaced the industry in working capital efficiency improvements, by lowering our cash conversion cycle by 36 days to 56 days for Fiscal 2006. We also maintained capital spending at an average rate of 2.4% of sales, one of the lowest in the industry. Acquired highly targeted businesses to further strengthen our leadership position in the three core categories, including the Petrosoyuz (condiments and sauces) business in Russia and the iconic HP and Lea & Perrins sauces brands. Returned over $4 billion to shareholders over the last four years through the dividend derived from the spin off to Del Monte, the annual dividend program and share repurchases. As a result of all these actions, we believe Heinz has become a stronger and more focused company. 14 Table of Contents Growth Strategy Looking forward, we are excited about the opportunity to build on our stronger foundation. We will pursue the following strategies to achieve our goal of becoming the world leader in our three categories of Ketchup & Sauces, Meals & Snacks and Infant Food: 1. Drive Profitable Growth: With a more focused portfolio, Heinz will devote its energy and resources primarily to the six major developed markets of the U.S., Canada, U.K., Italy, Western Europe and Australia/New Zealand. In these markets, Heinz will increase consumer insights to improve value to customers and consumers. We will also focus on the key emerging markets of Russia, India, China, Indonesia and Poland. These markets represent over 40% of the worlds population and 15% of the worlds GDP growth. Heinz has good, profitable businesses in each of these markets and will be looking to drive strong growth with products designed for local tastes and cultures. 2. Further Simplify the Business: Heinz will continue to improve its effectiveness and reduce complexity by: Pruning those few remaining businesses that do not fit with our long term strategy; Eliminating non value added facilities and SKUs; Continued de layering of the organization; and Establishing best in class processes and systems around the globe. 3. Reduce Costs to Improve Margins: In the face of recent increases in fuel, commodity, pension and compliance costs, Heinz has plans to improve gross margins and operating margins. These plans include initiatives to drive efficiency in trade spending, enhance sales mix, accelerate global procurement, improve supply chain processes/tools and reduce general and administrative costs. All of these initiatives are expected to improve operating margins and provide the fuel for additional growth. 4. Achieve Operational Excellence: We continue to attract, develop and retain great leadership and talent. Our key leaders are instilling the discipline to establish exceptional Sales & Operating Planning processes and are supporting this process with best in class systems, such as SAP, Siebel, MEI and Manugistics. Through this focus by senior management and the Board of Directors, we are establishing ehnanced organizational capabilities and performance. 5. Drive Cash Flow to Improve Shareholder Value: Building from our increased cash flow from operations over the last few years, we intend to continue driving cash flow to leverage value. Going forward, the key sources of cash flow are expected to be faster earnings growth, continued reduction of the cash conversion cycle (CCC), strong discipline on capital spending and the sale of underutilized assets (including additional pruning of the portfolio). Strategic Transformation The following is a more detailed discussion of the effects of our strategic transformation initiatives and results of our operations for the past three years. 15 Table of Contents HP/ LP Acquisition In August 2005, the Company acquired HP Foods Limited, HP Foods Holdings Limited, and HP Foods International Limited (collectively referred to as HPF) for a purchase price of approximately $877 million. HPF is a manufacturer and marketer of sauces which are primarily sold in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada. The Company acquired HPFs brands including HP and Lea & Perrin and a perpetual license to market Amoy brand Asian sauces and products in Europe. In March 2006, the British Competition Commission formally cleared this acquisition, concluding that the acquisition may not be expected to result in a substantial lessening of competition within the markets for tomato ketchup, brown sauce, barbeque sauce, canned baked beans and canned pasta in the United Kingdom. Heinz Global Innovation and Quality Center In September 2005, the Company opened the Heinz Global Innovation and Quality Center and announced a significant commitment to product development and quality to better align with consumer desires. Located north of Pittsburgh, the 100,000 square foot facility is Heinzs global hub for research and development and home to more than 100 chefs, food technologists, researchers and package designers, plus experts in nutrition and quality assurance. The center provides technical direction, assistance and advice to Heinz business units worldwide. Housed at the Heinz Global Innovation and Quality Center is its International Center for Excellence in Ketchup & Sauces, a repository of technology and a knowledge base for tomatoes. A multi national team operates out of key growing and processing regions worldwide and studies all facets of the tomato. They are seeking an understanding of the anti oxidant lycopene and its means to enhance health and well being. Botanists and agronomists are constantly developing proprietary tomato hybrids to bolster field yields, enhance color and flavor and to better withstand cooking and packing operations. Heinz technologists are reviewing every production phase from paste to packaging. Discontinued Operations During the past several years, the Company has focused on exiting non strategic business operations. Certain of these businesses which were sold are accounted for as discontinued operations. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, the Company completed the sale of the European seafood business, which included the brands of John West, Petit Navire, Marie Elisabeth and Mareblu. The Company received net proceeds of $469.3 million for this disposal and recognized a $199.8 million pretax ($122.9 million after tax) gain which has been recorded in discontinued operations. Also in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, the Company completed the sale of the Tegel poultry business in New Zealand and received net proceeds of $150.4 million, and recognized a $10.4 million non taxable gain, which is also recorded in discontinued operations. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the operating results related to these businesses have been included in discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated statements of income for all periods presented. These discontinued operations generated sales of $688.0 million (partial year), $808.8 million and $788.7 million and net income of $169.1 million (net of $90.2 million in tax expense), $47.8 million (net of $23.3 million in tax expense), and $63.5 million (net of $37.5 million in tax expense) for the years ended May 3, 2006, April 27, 2005 and April 28, 2004, respectively. In addition, net income from discontinued operations includes amounts related to the favorable settlement of tax liabilities associated with the businesses spun off to Del Monte in Fiscal 2003. Such amounts totaled $33.7 million, $16.9 million and $25.3 million for the years ended May 3, 2006, April 27, 2005 and April 28, 2004, respectively. 16 Table of Contents Transformation Costs In executing our strategic transformation, the Company has incurred the following associated costs. These costs are directly linked to the Companys transformation strategy. Reorganization Costs The Company recorded pretax integration and reorganization charges for targeted workforce reductions consistent with the Companys goals to streamline its businesses totaling $124.7 million ($80.3 million after tax) in Fiscal 2006. Approximately 1,000 positions were eliminated as a result of this program, primarily in the General & Administrative (G&A) area. Additionally, pretax costs of $22.0 million ($16.3 million after tax) were incurred in Fiscal 2006, primarily as a result of the strategic reviews related to the portfolio realignment. The total impact of these initiatives on continuing operations in Fiscal 2006 was $146.7 million pre tax ($96.6 million after tax), of which $17.4 million was recorded as costs of products sold and $129.3 million in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A). In addition, $10.5 million was recorded in discontinued operations, net of tax. The amount included in accrued expenses related to these initiatives totaled $51.6 million at May 3, 2006, most of which will be paid during the first quarter of Fiscal 2007. There were no reorganization costs incurred in Fiscal 2005. During Fiscal 2004, the Company recognized $16.6 million pretax ($10.6 million after tax) of reorganization costs. These costs are recorded as a component of SG&A and were primarily due to employee termination and severance costs. Management estimates that these actions impacted approximately 100 employees. Other Divestitures/ Impairment Charges As a result of the finalization of the strategic reviews related to the portfolio realignment, the following non core businesses and product lines were sold in Fiscal 2006 or are anticipated to be sold in Fiscal 2007, and, accordingly, the following gains/(losses) or non cash asset impairment charges have been recorded in continuing operations during Fiscal 2006: Business or Product Line Segment Pre Tax After Tax (in millions) Loss on sale of Seafood business in Israel Other Operating $ (15.9 ) $ (15.9 ) Impairment charge on Portion Pac Bulk product line U.S. Foodservice (21.5 ) (13.3 ) Impairment charge on U.K. Frozen and Chilled product lines Europe (15.2 ) (15.2 ) Impairment charge on European production assets Europe (18.7 ) (18.7 ) Impairment charge on Noodle product line in Indonesia Asia/Pacific (15.8 ) (8.5 ) Impairment charge on investment in Zimbabwe business Other Operating (111.0 ) (105.6 ) Other Various (1.5 ) 0.5 Total $ (199.6 ) $ (176.7 ) Of the above pre tax amounts, $74.1 million was recorded in cost of products sold, $15.5 million in SG&A, $111.0 million in asset impairment charges for cost and equity investments, and $(1.0) million in other expense. Also during the third quarter of Fiscal 2006, the Company sold its equity investment in The Hain Celestial Group, Inc. (Hain) and recognized a $6.9 million ($4.5 million after tax) loss which is recorded within other expense, net. Net proceeds from the sale of this investment were $116.1 million. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2005, the Company recognized a $64.5 million impairment charge on its equity investment in Hain. The charge reduced Heinzs carrying value in Hain to fair market value as of January 26, 2005, with no resulting impact on cash flows. The Company also recorded a $9.3 million non cash charge in the third quarter of Fiscal 2005 to 17 Table of Contents recognize the impairment of a cost basis investment in a grocery industry sponsored e commerce business venture. Due to the uncertainty of realizability and executing possible tax planning strategies, the Company recorded a valuation allowance of $27.3 million against the potential tax benefits primarily related to the Hain impairment. This valuation allowance was subsequently released in Fiscal 2006 based upon tax planning strategies that are expected to generate sufficient capital gains that will occur during the capital loss carryforward period. See further discussion in Note 7, Income Taxes in 
 
