FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20031118141846.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
99.1    Earnings Release dated November 13, 2003  Third Quarter FY'04 Earnings
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 13, 2003, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's financial position and results of operations as of and for the three and nine-months ended October 31, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
99.1    Earnings Release dated November 13, 2003  Third Quarter FY'04 Earnings
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company doing business under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced record earnings of $14.1 million for the third quarter ended October 31, 2003, a 76% increase over the comparable quarter last year. Third quarter earnings per diluted share rose to $0.35 this year versus $0.20 in the prior year.
 
As reported earlier, net sales for the quarter increased by 29% to a record $142.3 million. This increase over the prior year was fueled by:
 
 
During the quarter, comparable store sales rose 15% at Urban Outfitters Retail and 19% at Anthropologie Retail, as compared to increases of 8% and 15%, respectively, for the same period in the prior year. New and noncomparable store sales increases for the quarter totaled $13.2 million.
 
"Our Retail brands and Direct businesses produced truly outstanding results in the third quarter," said Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "Sales were strong in all regions where we operate stores; and Direct sales, particularly over the internet, continued their meteoric growth. Most gratifying, however, was delivering 16.5% operating margins. This is the highest quarterly rate in the last seven years."
 
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the quarter and the nine months, the Company's gross profit margins increased by 434 and 263 basis points, respectively, versus the comparable prior year periods. These gains were due primarily to higher initial merchandise margins, decreased markdowns and the leveraging of occupancy expenses.
 
As of October 31, 2003, total Company inventories grew by $15.7 million on a year-over-year basis. This increase was almost entirely due to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. On a comparable store basis, inventories decreased by a modest 0.9% versus the prior year. Management believes that existing inventory, along with shipments of merchandise scheduled to arrive in November and early December, will be adequate to satisfy Holiday demand even though comparable store sales in early November continue to significantly exceed plan.
 
For the quarter and the nine months, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as percentages of net sales, decreased by approximately 27 and 29 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods in the prior year. The leveraging of store-related expenses more than offset additional costs associated with the distribution of approximately 1.7 million and 2.6 million copies of the newly launched Urban Direct catalog during the three and nine months, respectively.
 
Thus far this fiscal year, the Company has opened thirteen new stores  eight Anthropologie stores and five Urban Outfitters stores. Management plans to open seven or eight additional new stores during the remainder of Fiscal 2004.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler that offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 58 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 47 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie catalog and web site; and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through one Free People store.
 
A conference call will be held today to discuss third quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EST at:
http://www.corporate-ir.net/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=URBN&script=1010&item_id=803008
Notes of the Company's conference call presentation will be available on:
.
www.urbanoutfittersinc.com
 
    
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


