FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20041115155327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 4, 2004, the Company issued a sales release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The sales release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's sales for the three and nine month period ending October 31, 2004.
 
In addition, on November 11, 2004, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and nine month periods ending October 31, 2004.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced record sales for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2004.
 
Total Company sales for the third quarter, as compared to the same period last year, jumped 52% to a record $216.3 million. This surge in revenues was fueled by:
 
 
 
 
 
During the quarter, comparable store sales at Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters grew by 22%, 49% and 15%, respectively.
 
"We continued to experience exceptional comp' store and direct-to-consumer sales at all of our brands, despite very strong comparisons," said Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "During the quarter, our strongest comp' store performance came in the month of October, thus we remain very optimistic concerning our prospects for the upcoming Holiday season."
 
Total Company sales for the nine months ended October 31, 2004 grew to a record $576.1 million, a 55% increase over last year's comparable period. Total Company comparable store sales increased by 25%, with Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters comp' store sales up 27%, 47% and 24%, respectively.
 
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
Management expects the actual results for the periods ended October 31, 2004 to be released on November 11, 2004.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 71 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 62 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie web site and catalog; and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through one Free People store and web site, as of October 31, 2004.
 
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company doing business under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced record earnings of $26.0 million for the third quarter ended October 31, 2004, an 85% increase over the comparable quarter last year. Third quarter earnings per diluted share rose to $0.31 this year versus $0.17 in the prior year.
 
As reported earlier, net sales for the quarter grew by 52% to a record $216.4 million. This increase over the prior year was fueled by:
 
 
For the quarter, comparable store sales at Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters rose by 22%, 48% and 15%, respectively, for a combined 18% increase. This improvement followed a 17% combined comp' store sales increase for the same quarter last year. For the nine months ended October 31, 2004, total Company comparable store sales jumped by 25%, and total Company sales increased to a record $576.1 million, a 55% increase over the comparable period last year.
 
"All of our Brands and all of our channels of distribution produced truly outstanding results during the quarter. Store sales remained strong across all regions; Direct sales continue to surge ahead and the Free People business is explosive. I am especially pleased that we delivered a 20% operating margin for the quarter," said Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President; adding, "Our performance thus far this year is testament to the strength of our Brands, the validity of our business strategies and the ability of our teams to deliver the products and the experiences our customers want."
 
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the quarter and the nine months, the Company's gross profit margins increased by 235 and 365 basis points, respectively, versus the comparable prior year periods. These gains were due primarily to higher initial merchandise margins, decreased markdowns and the leveraging of occupancy and merchandise buying related expenses.
 
As of October 31, 2004, total Company inventories grew by $40.7 million on a year-over-year basis. This increase was primarily due to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. On a comparable store basis, inventories grew by 22% versus a 1% decrease in the prior year. This year's increase reflects the earlier receipt of Holiday Season merchandise and a more appropriate level of merchandise which is required to meet the current customer demand. Sales in early November continue to significantly exceed plan, although we expect comps' to continue to moderate throughout the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year and the first quarter of next year.
 
For the quarter and the nine months, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as percentages of net sales, decreased by approximately 111 and 135 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods in the prior year. This improvement primarily related to the leveraging of store-related expenses including direct labor, store management and support.
 
During the nine months ended October 31, 2004, the Company opened 20 new stores  10 Anthropologie stores and 10 Urban Outfitters stores. Management plans to open at least 6 additional new stores, including one additional Free People store, during the remainder of Fiscal 2005.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler that offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 71 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 62 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie catalog and web site; and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through one Free People store and web site as of October 31, 2004.
 
A conference call will be held today to discuss third quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EST at:
http://ir.urbanoutfittersinc.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=URBN&script=1010&item_id=905406
 
Notes of the Company's conference call presentation will be available on: .
www.urbanoutfittersinc.com
 
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 


