FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20040518142036.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 13, 2004, the Company issued a press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The press release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three month period ending April 30, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Anthropologie, Urban Outfitters and Free People brands, today announced record first quarter earnings of $16.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2004, a 164% increase over the comparable quarter last year. First quarter diluted earnings per share rose to $0.41 this year versus $0.16 in the prior year.
 
As previously stated, net sales for the first quarter increased by 59% to a record $170.3 million. Fueling this increase over the prior year was:
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable store sales at Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters were up 32%, 54% and 33%, respectively; or a combined 32% versus a 2% combined increase during the comparable quarter last year. New and non-comparable store sales increases for the quarter totaled $22.1 million.
 
"Our teams produced an exceptional quarter," stated Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "All of the performance metrics we look at were sharply positive. Sales and profits reached holiday-like' levels in the first quarter, with operating margins nearing 17%. We remain very optimistic about the summer season and even though sales comparisons become more difficult in this year's second quarter, comps' in the first few weeks of Q2 continue to run very significantly ahead of plan."
 
Net sales for the three months were as follows:
 
For the three months, gross profit margins increased by 561 basis points versus the prior year's comparable quarter. These gains were primarily due to higher initial merchandise margins, decreased markdowns and the leveraging of occupancy expenses.
 
As of April 30, 2004, total Company inventories grew by $24.7 million on a year-over-year basis. The acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores was the primary factor for this increase. On a comparable store basis, the Company had planned to expedite shipment and receipt of summer merchandise earlier than last year and increase its modestly planned inventory buy to accommodate the current sales trends. These measures have resulted in an 18% increase of comparable store inventory over last year's levels. The Company believes its inventory levels are adequate to meet the current rate of customer demand.
 
For the three months, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 110 basis points versus the comparable quarter last year. These improvements were primarily a result of the leveraging of store-related expenses.
 
Thus far this fiscal year, the Company has opened one new Anthropologie store and one new Urban Outfitters store. The Company plans to open approximately 10 additional new stores during the second quarter, and a total of 24 to 27 during the entire fiscal year.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 62 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters catalog and web site (www.urbn.com); 53 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie catalog and web site (www.anthropologie.com); and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through one Free People store.
 
A conference call will be held today to discuss first quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EDT on:
 
 
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
.
Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 
 
 


