FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20051114101935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 10, 2005, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2005
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Earnings Release dated November 10, 2005  Earnings for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands, today announced for the three months ended October 31, 2005, net earnings jumped by 43% over the comparable quarter last year to $37.2 million. Third quarter diluted earnings per share rose to a record $0.22 this year versus $0.15 in the prior year.
 
As stated in our sales release on November 3, 2005, net sales for the quarter increased by 33%, to a record $288.8 million. Fueling this increase over the prior year period was:
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable store sales at Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People were up 19%, 7% and 21%, respectively; or a combined 13% versus an 18% combined increase during the comparable quarter last year. Sales at new and non-comparable stores totaled $31.7 million for the quarter.
 
"All of our Brands delivered record performances in the third quarter resulting in 21.0% operating income  the highest in the Company's history," stated Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "We also cleared slower-selling Fall merchandise during the third quarter and have accelerated receipts of Winter/Holiday season merchandise to take advantage of current trends in the business. So far during November, sales continue to run significantly above our plan so we remain optimistic that this year's Holiday selling period will produce another record quarter," concluded Mr. Hayne.
 
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
 
Thus far this fiscal year, gross profit margins have increased by 35 basis points, primarily due to higher initial margins and improved inventory management resulting in lower shrink and obsolescence. These increases more than offset a 63 basis point reduction in third quarter gross profit margins.
 
As of October 31, 2005, total Company inventories grew by $57.3 million on a year-over-year basis. The acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores was the primary factor for this increase. Total comparable store inventories grew by 18% on a unit basis and 22% on a dollar basis. This year's increase reflects the earlier delivery of Fall/Holiday Season merchandise and a build in Anthropologie's housewares inventory which posted strong double-digit comp' sales results during the third quarter. While inventory weeks of supply are somewhat higher than last year, we believe they are appropriate given the current sales trend.
 
For the three and nine months, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 168 and 134 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods last year. These improvements were primarily a result of greater than planned increases in comp' store sales coupled with effective control of store-related payroll and other store-related and fixed administrative expenses. Also included in this improvement is a $1.6 million gain on the disposition of a building representing 52 basis points and 21 basis points for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2005, respectively.
 
The Company plans to open a total of 30-32 new stores in the current fiscal year, including 4 new Free People stores. Thus far during fiscal year 2006, the Company has opened 21 new stores.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 84 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 73 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie web site and catalog; and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through 5 Free People stores, a catalog and web site.
 
A conference call will be held today to discuss first quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EDT on:
http://ir.urbanoutfittersinc.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=URBN&script=1010&item_id=1147649
 
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the presentation of operating leases as discussed in Note 2 to the Company's Annual Report contained in Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 2005. In addition, shares issued and outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the 2:1 stock split effective September 26, 2005.
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the presentation of operating leases as discussed in Note 2 to the Company's Annual Report contained in Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 2005.
 


