FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20050817160748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On August 11, 2005, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and six months ended July 31, 2005
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Earnings Release dated August 11, 2005  Earnings for the three and six months ended July 31, 2005
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands, today announced for the three months ended July 31, 2005, net earnings jumped by 49% over the comparable quarter last year to $30.6 million. Second quarter diluted earnings per share rose to a record $0.36 this year versus $0.25 in the prior year.
 
As stated in our sales release on August 4, 2005, net sales for the quarter increased by 34%, to a record $253.4 million. Fueling this increase over the prior year period was:
 
 
Comparable store sales at Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People were up 13%, 6% and 36%, respectively; or a combined 10% versus a 26% combined increase during the comparable quarter last year. New and non-comparable store sales increases for the quarter totaled $33.1 million.
 
"July comps' were the best of the quarter due to strong customer response to our Fall fashion assortments," stated Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "This momentum, combined with the current positive spending mood of our customers, makes us optimistic about second half opportunities."
 
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the three and six months ended July 31, 2005, gross profit margins increased by 72 basis points and 94 basis points, respectively, versus the prior year's comparable periods. These gains were primarily due to higher initial merchandise margins and improved inventory management, resulting in lower shrink and obsolescence.
 
As of July 31, 2005, total Company inventories grew by $41.7 million on a year-over-year basis. The acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores was the primary factor for this increase. Total comparable store inventories grew by 22% and 10% on a dollar and unit basis, respectively. Earlier delivery of Fall season apparel and a build in Anthropologie's housewares inventory were the primary drivers of these increases.
 
For the three and six months, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 79 and 114 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods last year. These improvements were primarily a result of greater than planned increases in comp' store sales coupled with effective control of store-related payroll and other store-related and fixed administrative expenses.
 
The Company plans to open a total of 30-32 new stores in the current fiscal year, including 2-3 new Free People stores. Thus far during fiscal year 2006, the Company has opened 12 new stores.
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 82 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe; an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 69 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie web site and catalog; and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,100 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through 3 Free People stores and a web site.
 
A conference call will be held today to discuss first quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EDT on:
http://ir.urbanoutfittersinc.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=URBN&script=1010&item_id=1108956
 
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 
 
 


