FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20060811135819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 10, 2006, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and six months ended July 31, 2006.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
99.1 Earnings release dated August 10, 2006  Operating results for the three and six months ended July 31, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced earnings of $25.7 million and $46.0 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2006, respectively. Earnings per diluted share were $0.15 for the quarter and $0.27 for the six months.
As stated in the Company's previous sales release on August 8, 2006, net sales for the quarter increased by 13%, to $285.6 million. Factors driving this increase over the prior year period were:
 
 
 
These factors offset a 7% decrease in total Company comparable store sales during the second quarter. By brand, comp' store sales decreased by 2% at Anthropologie, 11% at Urban Outfitters and increased by 8% at Free People. In the prior year's second quarter, comps' at these brands increased by 6%, 13% and 36%, respectively, and total Company comps' rose by 10%.
"We accomplished our goal of ending the quarter with comp' store inventories in-line with comparable store sales," stated Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "We have good information about our customers' current fashion preferences. Our goal for the second half is to use that information to bring the comps' back into positive territory," added Mr. Hayne.
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the three and six months ended July 31, 2006, gross profit margins decreased by 468 basis points and 550 basis points, respectively, versus the prior year's comparable periods. These reductions were primarily due to a higher rate of fixed store occupancy expense caused by comp' store sales decreases and additional markdowns to clear seasonal inventories.
As of July 31, 2006, total Company inventories grew by $15.9 million or 12% on a year-over-year basis. The acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores was the primary factor for this increase. Total comparable store inventories fell by 5.9%.
For the three and six months, selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A"), expressed as a percentage of net sales, increased by 128 and 131 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods last year. The rate increase was primarily caused by the effect of comp' store sales declines on fixed store related expenses. The combination of variable store labor expenses, and other SG&A categories, were flat to last year as a rate of sales.
The Company plans to open a total of 35-38 new stores in the current fiscal year, including 3-5 new Free People stores. During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, the Company has opened 13 new stores.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 98 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, an Urban Outfitters web site and catalog; 83 Anthropologie stores in the United States; an Anthropologie web site and catalog, and Free People, the Company's wholesale segment, which sells its product to approximately 1,500 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through 7 Free People stores, a web site and catalog, as of July 31, 2006.
A conference call will be held today to discuss second quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EDT on:
http://ir.urbanoutfittersinc.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=URBN&script=1010&item_id=1352639
.
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 


