FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20070809172912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 7, 2007, the Company issued a sales release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The sales release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's sales for the three and six months ended July 31, 2007.
In addition, on August 9, 2007, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and six months ended July 31, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced sales for the three and six months ended July 31, 2007.
Total Company sales for the second quarter increased by 22% over the same period last year to a record $348.4 million. Total Company comparable store sales grew 5% driven by strong increases of 14% and 28% at Anthropologie and Free People stores respectively. Direct-to-consumer sales leaped 35% and Free People Wholesale sales improved 28% for the quarter. Urban Outfitters comparable store sales decreased 3% for the quarter.
"All of our channels of distribution except the North American Urban stores delivered strong sales during the quarter," said Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "The Anthropologie brand continued its turnaround by posting double-digit comp' store sales gains while the Free People brand and Direct businesses all posted extraordinary results. We understand the issues confronting Urban, NA and are confident that the recent changes in merchandise strategy and personnel will have a positive impact on their future sales productivity," added Mr. Hayne.
Net sales for the three and six months were as follows:
 
The Company has opened a total of 11 new stores during the first six months of this fiscal year. The Company expects to open approximately 38 new stores during the full fiscal year. Management will release financial results for the three and six months ended July 31, 2007 on August 9, 2007.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 111 Urban Retail stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, two Urban Outfitters web sites and an Urban catalog; 96 Anthropologie Retail stores; an Anthropologie web site and catalog, and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,500 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through 11 Free People stores, a web site and catalog.
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle consumer products company operating under the Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced earnings of $31.9 million and $61.2 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2007, respectively. Earnings per diluted share were $0.19 for the quarter and $0.36 for the six months.
As stated in the Company's previous sales release on August 7, 2007, net sales jumped during the quarter by 22% to $348.4 million. Total Company comparable store sales grew 5% driven by increases of 14% and 28% at Anthropologie and Free People stores, respectively. Direct-to-consumer sales leaped 35% and Free People Wholesale sales improved 28% for the quarter. Urban Outfitters comparable store sales decreased 3% for the quarter.
"We delivered excellent results this quarter driven by outstanding performances at the Anthropologie and Free People brands," stated Richard A. Hayne, Chairman and President. "The Urban Outfitters brand was less successful as its stores experienced gross margin pressure due to the de-leveraging of occupancy expenses and the need to take significant merchandise mark-downs. We feel confident that the recent personnel and structural realignments made at Urban NA will yield positive results in future quarters," concluded Mr. Hayne.
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the three and six months ended July 31, 2007, gross profit margins increased by 64 basis points and 33 basis points, respectively, versus the prior year's comparable periods. The increase for both periods were primarily due to a reduction in markdowns and a lower rate of fixed store occupancy expense leveraged by comp' store sales improvements.
As of July 31, 2007, total Company inventories grew by $37.1 million or 25% on a year-over-year basis. The acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores was the primary factor for this increase. Total comparable store inventories rose by 3%.
For the three and six months ended July 31, 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, increased by 62 and 41 basis points, respectively, versus the same periods last year. These increases related to non-comparable expenses to operate our new home office facility which starts to anniversary its phased opening in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 as well as certain non-recurring legal fees for intellectual property defense. The combination of these two items more than offset favorable rate reductions from controlling store related expenses.
During the six months ended July 31, 2007, the Company has opened 11 new stores and is scheduled to open a total of 38 new stores in the current fiscal year.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retailer and wholesaler which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 111 Urban Retail stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, two Urban Outfitters web sites and an Urban catalog; 96 Anthropologie Retail stores; an Anthropologie web site and catalog, and Free People, the Company's wholesale division, which sells its product to approximately 1,500 specialty stores, department stores and catalogs, as well as through 11 Free People stores, a web site and catalog.
A conference call will be held today to discuss second quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EDT on:
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=115825&eventID=1610866
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 
 


