FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20090924170307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2009, we executed an amendment to our line of credit facility with Wachovia Bank, NA. The amendment adds an additional borrower and adds certain additional guarantors.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 3, CONSENT AND WAIVER TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of September 21, 2009, is by and among URBAN OUTFITTERS, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), and certain of its subsidiaries listed on attached hereto (together with Urban, individually and collectively, the ""); the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement defined below, and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").
Third Amendment
Urban
Schedule 1
Borrowers
Administrative Agent
A. Pursuant to that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated September 23, 2004, by and among the Borrowers, the Lenders referred to therein, and the Administrative Agent, as amended by (i) that certain Letter Agreement Concerning Amended and Restated Note, dated May 18, 2005, (ii) that certain First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November 30, 2006, (iii) that certain Extension of Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November 27, 2007, and (iv) that certain Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated December 10, 2007 (as so amended and as may be further amended, restated or modified from time to time, the "") the Lenders agreed, , to provide for a revolving line of credit in the maximum principal amount of Sixty Million Dollars ($60,000,000) to fund working capital (including capital expenditures), to support the issuance of documentary and standby Letters of Credit, and to finance the general corporate purposes of the Borrowers, and (ii) provide for the ability to increase the Commitment Amount up to the maximum principal amount of One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000).
Credit Agreement
inter alia
B. Borrowers have requested to amend the Credit Agreement, to, : (i) add an additional Borrower; and (ii) add certain additional Guarantors.
inter alia
C. Prior to the date hereof (i) Urban Outfitters (Delaware), Inc., a Delaware corporation that was a Borrower, was merged with and into U. O. Merchandise, Inc., a newly-created Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), and (ii) Free People LLC, a Delaware limited liability company that was a Guarantor, was merged with and into Free People of PA LLC (f/k/a Free People East LLC), a Pennsylvania limited liability company (the "," and together with the , collectively, the "," and each a ""). The consummation of each of the Mergers caused the occurrence of certain Events of Default (the "").
U.O.Merger
Free People Merger
U. O. Merger
Mergers
Merger
Merger Events of Default
D. Borrowers have requested that the Lenders and the Administrative Agent consent to the Mergers and waive all Events of Default that have occurred and are continuing solely as the result of the Mergers and the entrance by any of Urban Outfitters (Delaware), Inc., U. O. Merchandise, Inc., Free People LLC, and Free People of PA LLC, into, and the performance of, the agreements, instruments, certificates and other documents evidencing any of the Mergers (collectively, the "").
Merger Documents
E. The Lenders and the Administrative Agent have agreed to the foregoing modifications, consents, and waivers, as more particularly described herein and subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
"" means the lawful currency of Bermuda.
Bermuda Dollars
"" means, collectively, those certain Fourth Amended and Restated Promissory Notes, each dated as of September 21, 2009, by the Borrowers in favor of each Lender."
Fourth Amended and Restated Notes
"" means the lawful currency of Hong Kong.
Hong Kong Dollars
"" means any Joinder to that certain Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2007, in the form of to the Third Amendment, to be entered into by any Subsidiary of any of the Borrowers, pursuant to which such Subsidiary becomes a party to the Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement.
Joinder to Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement
Exhibit I
"" between Urban and the Administrative Agent, dated as of September 21, 2009.
Post-Closing Letter Agreement
"" means that certain Amendment No. 3 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, by and among Borrowers, Lenders, and Administrative Agent, dated as of September 21, 2009.
Third Amendment
"" means, collectively, the Third Amendment, the Joinder to Guaranty, the Fourth Amended and Restated Note, the Joinder to Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement, the Post-Closing Letter Agreement, and each other document, instrument, certificate and agreement executed and delivered by any Borrower, any Subsidiary, any Guarantor, or their counsel in connection with the Third Amendment or otherwise referred to therein or contemplated thereby all as they may be amended, restated or otherwise modified.
Third Amendment Documents
"" means the date on which the conditions set forth in of the Third Amendment have been satisfied.
Third Amendment Effective Date
Section 4
"" means as of the date hereof Pounds Sterling, Irish Punts, Hong Kong Dollars, Bermuda Dollars, and the euro and hereafter means such currencies or such other lawful currency other than Dollars that is freely transferable and convertible into Dollars as each Lender and Administrative Agent may mutually agree and from time to time designate as an Alternate Currency, each such Alternate Currency specified herein or hereafter designated to remain in effect as such until notice is given by any Lender or Administrative Agent that such currency is no longer available as an Alternate Currency.
Alternate Currency
"" means collectively those direct and indirect Subsidiaries of the Borrowers set forth on to the Third Amendment, and "" means any of such Guarantors and each additional entity whether now owned or hereafter acquired that becomes a Guarantor pursuant to Section 8.12 hereof; , , that Urban Outfitters Canada, Inc., a corporation formed under the laws of Canada, shall not be a Guarantor.
Guarantors
Schedule 3
Guarantor
provided
however
"" means, collectively, this Agreement, the Note, the Guaranty Agreement, the Applications, the Letters of Credit and each other document, instrument, certificate and agreement executed and delivered by any Borrower, any Subsidiary, any Guarantor or their counsel in connection with this Agreement or otherwise referred to herein or contemplated hereby, all as may be amended, restated or otherwise modified, including, without limitation, the First Amendment Documents, the Second Amendment Documents, and the Third Amendment Documents.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, all Borrowers formed under a jurisdiction outside of the United States, including, without limitation, URBN UK Limited (f/k/a Urban Outfitters UK Limited), a corporation formed under the laws of England and Wales, Urban Outfitters Ireland Limited, a corporation formed under the laws of the Republic of Ireland, and HK Sourcing Limited, a limited liability company incorporated in Hong Kong, and "" means any of such Non-U.S. Borrowers.
Non-U.S. Borrowers
Non-U.S. Borrower
 
 
"(b) investments made in accordance with the Investment Policy and Guidelines attached hereto as as in effect on the Third Amendment Effective Date, which Investment Policy and Guidelines may be updated or amended by the Borrowers without the consent of Wachovia; provided, that such updates or amendments shall not become a part of this Credit Agreement without ten (10) days prior written notice to Wachovia;"
Schedule 10.4(b)
to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth on attached to this Third Amendment. All references in the Loan Agreement to shall be deemed to be references to the attached to this Third Amendment
Schedule 10.4(b)
Schedule 10.4(b)
Schedule 10.4(b)
Schedule 10,4(b)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amendment No. 3, Consent and Waiver the day and year first above written.
 
U. O. Fenwick, Inc., a Delaware corporation;
U. O. Merchandise, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation;
URBN UK Limited (f/k/a Urban Outfitters UK Limited), a corporation formed under the laws of England and Wales;
Urban Outfitters Ireland Limited, a corporation formed under the laws of the Republic of Ireland; and
HK Sourcing Limited, a limited liability company incorporated in Hong Kong
Anthropologie, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation;
Urban Outfitters Wholesale, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation;
Urban Outfitters Direct LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
Anthropologie Direct LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
U.O.D. Secondary, Inc., a Delaware corporation;
UOGC, Inc., a Florida corporation;
Urban Outfitters West LLC, a California limited liability company;
Free People of PA LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
Freepeople.com LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
Urban Outfitters Holdings LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
Anthropologie Holdings LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
Urbanoutfitters.com LP, a Pennsylvania limited partnership;
Anthropologie.com, a Pennsylvania limited partnership;
U. O. Real Estate LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company;
URBN NL Holding, C.V., a Dutch limited partnership; and
UO (Bermuda) Limited, Bermuda company limited by shares


