FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20090310095057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 5, 2009, the Company issued an earnings release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The earnings release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's earnings for the three and twelve months ended January 31, 2009.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PHILADELPHIA, March 5, 2009 (GLOBENEWSWIRE) - Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle specialty retail company operating under the Anthropologie, Free People, Terrain and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced earnings of $41 million and $199 million for the fourth quarter and year ended January 31, 2009, respectively. Earnings per diluted share were $0.24 for the quarter and $1.17 for the year.
As stated in the Company's previous sales release on February 5, 2009, total sales for the fourth quarter reached a record $508 million, an increase of 9% over the comparable quarter last year. Comparable retail segment sales, which include our Direct-to-consumer channels, increased 3% for the quarter. Comparable store sales rose 3% at Urban Outfitters and decreased 6% and 13% at Anthropologie and Free People respectively, for a combined total company comparable store sales decrease of 1%. Direct-to-consumer sales surged 20%, reflecting strong growth across all brands. Free People wholesale sales decreased 3% for the quarter. Total Company net sales for the year ended January 31, 2009 increased 22%, to a record $1.8 billion.
"We are pleased to announce healthy fourth quarter earnings despite an uncertain and challenging environment," said Glen T. Senk, Chief Executive Officer. "We are particularly proud of our team's ability to execute two critical tasks during the quarter: reducing comp' inventory levels by 13% versus the prior year, and implementing measurable cost control initiatives resulting in SG&A expense improvements of 73 basis points versus the prior year. It was another record breaking year for the URBN team, and we enter the spring selling season enthusiastically committed to providing a compelling product assortment and customer experience," finished Mr. Senk.
Net sales for the periods were as follows:
 
For the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2009, gross profit margin declined by 555 basis points, versus the prior year's comparable period. This decrease is primarily due to a higher rate of applied and anticipated merchandise markdowns to clear seasonal inventory. For the year ended January 31, 2009, gross profit margin increased by 64 basis points primarily due to the leveraging of store occupancy costs and improvements to initial margins.
As of January 31, 2009, inventories decreased by $2.2 million or 1% on a year-over-year basis as comparable store inventory declines more than offset additions to inventories for new stores. For the quarter ended January 31, 2009, total comparable store inventories decreased by 13%.
For the fourth quarter and year ended January 31, 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 73 and 76 basis points, respectively, versus the prior year comparable periods. For the quarter, the reduction was primarily driven by cost control across all areas of the business, with the most impact in direct store related expenses. For the year ended January 31, 2009, the favorable rate reduction was primarily due to cost control in direct store related expenses as well as savings related to non-recurring legal fees incurred in the prior year.
The Company's annual effective tax rate was 35.6% versus 31.6% for the prior year. The prior year's rate was favorably impacted by the receipt of one-time federal tax incentives for work performed on the development of our new home office. The Company estimates that next year's tax rate will be similar to this year.
During the year ended January 31, 2009 the Company opened 20 Urban Outfitters stores, 13 Anthropologie stores, 15 Free People stores and 1 Terrain garden center or 49 new stores in total. The Company plans to open 42 to 45 new stores during fiscal year 2010.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retail company which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 142 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, two web sites and a catalog; 121 Anthropologie stores, a web site, catalog and Leifsdottir, Anthropologie's recently launched wholesale concept; Free People Wholesale, which sells its product to approximately 1,400 specialty stores and select department stores; 30 Free People stores, a web-site and catalog; and 1 Terrain garden center as of January 31, 2009.
A conference call will be held today to discuss fourth quarter results and will be web cast at 11:00 a.m. EST on:
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=115825&eventID=2075955
.
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 
 


