FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20110825195947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 25, 2011, Urban Outfitters, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 10,000,000 of the Company's common shares, from time-to-time, subject to prevailing market conditions. The Company has repurchased all of the shares previously available under its share repurchase program, including the 10,000,000 common shares authorized by the Board of Directors on November 16, 2010.
Reference is made to the press release filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The information set forth in Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PHILADELPHIA, August 25, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE)  Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ: URBN), a leading lifestyle specialty retail company operating under the Anthropologie, BHLDN, Free People, Terrain and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional 10 million common shares. Pursuant to this program, the Company, at its discretion, may repurchase shares of its common stock from time to time, subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices. The Company has repurchased all of the shares available under its previous share repurchase program, including the 10,000,000 common shares authorized by the Board of Directors on November 16, 2010.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retail company which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 180 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, catalogs and two web sites; 160 Anthropologie stores in the United States, Canada and Europe, catalogs and two websites; Free People wholesale, which sells its product to approximately 1,400 specialty stores and select department stores; 51 Free People stores, catalogs and web site; 1 Terrain garden center and web site and a BHLDN website as of July 31, 2011.
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
. Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, including any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.


