FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20110520083039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 17, 2011, Urban Outfitters, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Freeman M. Zausner, age 63, as its Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Zausner previously held the position of Chief Administrative Officer of the Company for the past 8 years.
 
On May 17, 2011, the Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the shareholders voted on (i) the election of each of the Company's three nominees for Class II Director to serve a term initially expiring at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2014, (ii) an advisory resolution on executive compensation, (iii) an advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation and (iv) a shareholder proposal that would require a new policy and report on board of directors diversity. The results of the voting were as follows:
1. Proposal No. 1. Election of Directors.
 
2. Proposal No. 2. Advisory vote on executive compensation.
 
3. Proposal No. 3. Advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation.
 
Based on the Board of Directors' recommendation in the Proxy Statement and the voting results with respect to the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, the Company has adopted a policy to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every three years.
4. Proposal No. 4. Shareholder proposal requiring a new policy and report on board of directors diversity.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


