FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20120209162734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2012, the Company issued a sales release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The sales release disclosed material non-public information regarding the Company's sales for the three and twelve months ended January 31, 2012.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHILADELPHIA, PA, February 9, 2012  Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle specialty retail company operating under the Anthropologie, BHLDN, Free People, Terrain and Urban Outfitters brands today announced record net sales for the quarter and year ended January 31, 2012.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, total company net sales increased 9% over the same quarter last year to $731 million. Comparable retail segment net sales, which include the direct-to-consumer channels, increased 2% for the quarter, while comparable store net sales decreased 1% for the quarter. Comparable retail segment net sales at Urban Outfitters, Free People and Anthropologie increased 3%, 9% and 1%, respectively. Direct-to-consumer comparable net sales increased 14% and wholesale segment net sales rose 3% for the quarter.
For the year ended January 31, 2012, total Company net sales increased to $2.5 billion or 9% over the prior year. Comparable retail segment net sales were flat while comparable store net sales decreased 4%. Direct-to-consumer comparable net sales rose 14% for the year and wholesale segment net sales increased 11%.
"While each brand reported record sales for the fourth quarter, we are most pleased with the progress the teams made on reducing overall inventory levels. Promotional activity was significantly higher than planned but ending inventories were clean, and on a comparable store basis, lower than the prior year," said Richard Hayne, Chief Executive Officer. "The direct-to-consumer channel remains a highlight with each brand experiencing strong growth during the quarter. We remain especially excited about the opportunities surrounding this channel."
Net sales by brand and channel for the three and twelve months were as follows:
 
During year ended January 31, 2012, the Company opened a total of 57 new stores including: 21 new Urban Outfitters stores, 15 new Anthropologie stores, 20 new Free People stores and 1 BHLDN store. The Company will release fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 earnings results on March 12, 2012.
Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retail company which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 197 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada and Europe, catalogs and websites; 168 Anthropologie stores in the United States, Canada and Europe, catalogs and websites; Free People wholesale, which sells its product to approximately 1,400 specialty stores and select department stores; 62 Free People stores, catalogs and websites, 1 Terrain garden center and website and 1 BHLDN store and website as of January 31, 2012.
This news release is being made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Certain matters contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. When used in this release, the words "project," "believe," "plan," "anticipate," "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward-looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, lowered levels of consumer confidence and higher levels of unemployment, and continuation of lowered levels of consumer spending resulting from the continuing worldwide economic downturn, any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas, the closing of any of our distribution centers, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, risks associated with internet sales, response to new store concepts, potential difficulty liquidating certain marketable security investments and other risks identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein.
 


