FILE:URBN/URBN-8K-20121203172426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 27, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Urban Outfitters, Inc. (the "Company") approved the terms of the Urban Outfitters Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan will be effective as of February 1, 2013. The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan and will be maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of employees who are limited in their participation under the Company's 401(k) plan. Accordingly, the Plan is also intended to be exempt from Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Deferred compensation under the Plan will consist of elective deferrals, if any, made by the participant and discretionary contribution credits made by the Company. Elective deferral credits will be fully vested. Discretionary contribution credits may be subject to a vesting schedule determined by the Company. Payment obligations, if any, under the Plan are payable in cash on a date or dates selected by the participant or upon certain specified events such as termination of employment, death or disability, subject to change in certain specified circumstances.
 
On November 27, 2012, the Board approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the "Amendment") intended to enhance the Company's corporate governance and further its one-share one-vote policy. The Amendment, if approved by the shareholders, will implement a majority voting standard and eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. The Company intends to submit the Amendment for action to the shareholders of the Company at the Company's next annual meeting. A copy of the Amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Also on November 27, 2012, the Board amended and restated the Company's Amended and Restated By-laws (the "By-laws"). The amendments to the By-laws, which became effective immediately, (i) remove the provisions related to plurality voting in director elections to make them consistent with the proposed Amendment to the Company's Articles of Incorporation, (ii) eliminate classification of the Board, and (iii) conform the dates of the regular meetings of the Board to the Company's current practice.
More specifically, the amendments to Section 1.06 of the By-laws remove the provision related to plurality voting in director elections so that director elections are governed solely by the default rule under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, unless and until the Amendment is approved by the shareholders and filed.
The amendments to Section 2.02 of the By-laws eliminate classification of the Board and provide for the annual election of directors. Before the amendments to the By-laws, the Company had a classified Board consisting of three classes. With regard to directors elected prior to the amendments to the By-laws, Class I directors will continue in office until the annual meeting in 2013, Class II directors will continue in office until the annual meeting in 2014, and Class III directors will continue in office until the annual meeting in 2015. All directors elected at the Company's 2013 annual meeting or at subsequent annual meetings will be elected for one-year terms.
The amendments to Section 2.05 of the By-laws provide that regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the third Tuesday of each February, May, August and November, which is consistent with the Company's current practice. Before the amendments to the By-laws, regular meetings of the Board were scheduled to be held on the third Tuesday of each January, April, July and October.
The foregoing summary of changes to the By-laws is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Amend the first sentence of Article 4(a)(iv) to revise as follows:
(iv) The holders of outstanding Common Shares shall have the right to vote on (or, as provided by law, take action by consent with respect to) the election and removal of the directors of the Corporation and on, and with respect to, all other matters to be voted on or consented to by the shareholders of the Corporation, and each holder shall be entitled to one vote for each Common Share held and shall not have the right to cumulate their votes in the election of directors. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the terms of a class or series of the Preferred Shares fixed by a resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted pursuant to paragraph (b) below, the holders of Preferred Shares shall not have any right to vote on, or consent with respect to, any matters to be voted on or consented to by the shareholders of the Corporation and the Preferred Shares shall not be included in determining the number of shares voting or entitled to vote on any such matters.
Insert new Article 5 to read in its entirety as follows:
5. (a) In an election of directors that is not a contested election, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director. For the purposes of this Article 5, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of votes cast "for" a nominee must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that nominee.
(b) In a contested election of directors, the candidates receiving the highest number of votes, up to the number of directors to be elected in such election, shall be elected. Shareholders shall not have the right to vote against a nominee in a contested election of directors.
(c) For purposes of this Article 5, a contested election is one in which the number of candidates exceeds the number of directors to be elected. The number of candidates for an election shall be determined in accordance with these Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation's By-Laws, including any advance notice provisions of each, and applicable law.
(d) If an incumbent director who is a candidate for re-election is not elected, the director shall be deemed to have tendered his or her resignation to the Board. The Nominating Committee, if any, will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board shall act on the Nominating Committee's recommendation and disclose its decision and the rationale therefor within 90 days after the date of the certification of the election results. The director who is deemed to have tendered his or her resignation shall not participate in the decisions of the Nominating Committee or of the Board with respect to his or her own resignation.
Renumber current Articles 5 through 9 as new Articles 6 through 10.

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.01 . Meetings of shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place, within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or elsewhere, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. If no place is so fixed for a meeting, it shall be held at the Corporation's then principal executive office.
Place of Meeting
Section 1.02 . There shall be an annual meeting of shareholders, unless the Board of Directors shall fix some other hour or date therefor, at 10:00 o'clock A.M. on the third Tuesday in May in each year, if not a legal holiday under the laws of Pennsylvania, and, if a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding secular day not a legal holiday under the laws of Pennsylvania, at which the shareholders shall elect directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meeting
Section 1.03 . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board. Business transacted at all special meetings shall be confined to the objects stated in the call and matters germane thereto.
Special Meetings
Section 1.04 . Except as provided in Section 1707 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, written notice of every meeting of shareholders shall be given in any manner permitted by law by or at the direction of the Secretary or such other person as is authorized by the Board of Directors to each shareholder of record entitled to receipt thereof, at least five days prior to the day named for the meeting, unless a greater period of notice is required by law in a particular case.
Notice of Meetings
Section 1.05 . At every meeting of the shareholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the Chief Executive Officer, or in their absence, a chairman chosen by the shareholders, shall act as chairman; and the Secretary, or in his absence, a person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary.
Organization
Section 1.06 . Except as otherwise specified herein or in the Articles of Incorporation or provided by law, whenever any corporate action is to be taken by vote of shareholders, it shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, at a duly organized meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
Voting
Section 1.07 .
Notifications of Nominations and Proposed Business
(a) . Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred shares, (a) nominations for the election of directors, and (b) business to be brought before any shareholder meeting may be made or proposed by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board of Directors or a proxy committee appointed by the Board of Directors, or by any shareholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally. However, any such shareholder may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting or propose business to be brought before a meeting, only if such shareholder has given timely notice in proper written form of intent to make such nomination or nominations or to propose such business. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be received by the Corporation not less than 70 days nor more than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting (or, in the case of a special meeting, not earlier than the 90th day before such meeting and not later than the later of (i) the 70th day prior to such meeting and (ii) the 10th day following the day on which notice of the meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of such meeting was made, whichever first occurs). To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Corporation shall set forth:
Required Procedures
(i) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nominations or propose the business and, as the case may be, of the person or persons to be nominated or of the business to be proposed;
(ii) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and, if applicable, intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice or to make the proposal to the meeting;
(iii) a representation that the shareholder will notify the Corporation in writing of the number and class of shares owned beneficially or of record by the shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person as of the close of business on the record date for the meeting promptly, and in no event later than 10 days, following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed;
(iv) a description of all agreements, arrangements or understandings between the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder, or the business is to be proposed, and a representation that the shareholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the close of business on the record date for the meeting promptly, and in no event later than 10 days, following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed;
(v) such other information regarding each nominee or each matter of business to be proposed by such shareholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, or the matter been proposed, or intended to be proposed by the Board of Directors;
(vi) if applicable, the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and
(vii) the information required by Section 1.08, and a representation that the shareholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any changes in that information as of the close of business on the record date for the meeting promptly, and in no event later than 10 days, following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed.
(b) . The chairman of the meeting shall refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person or the proposal of any business not made in compliance with the foregoing procedures.
Effect of Failure to Comply
Section 1.08 .
Disclosure by Shareholders of Hedged Positions
(a) . A notice submitted by a shareholder under Section 1.07 must describe in reasonable detail, with respect to the shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person:
Required Disclosures
(i) any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly beneficially owned by the shareholder or a Shareholder Associated Person, or any other direct or indirect opportunity for the shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation;
(ii) any interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which the shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; and
(iii) any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions that has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including, without limitation, any put, short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) that has been made by or on behalf of, a shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, the shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person with respect to any share of the Corporation.
(b) . As used in Section 1.07 and this Section 1.08, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
Definitions
"Derivative Instrument" means an option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or other right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right is subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of shares of the Corporation or otherwise.
"Shareholder Associated Person" of a shareholder means (i) any person controlling, controlled by, under common control with, or acting in concert with, the shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by the shareholder, (iii) any entity of which the shareholder is an employee, officer, member, partner, trustee, director or, except for entities the shares of which are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a shareholder, and (iv) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with, the Shareholder Associated Person.
Section 1.09 .
Determination of Shareholders of Record
(a) . The Board of Directors may fix a time prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, the meeting, which time, except in the case of an adjourned meeting, shall be not more than 90 days prior to the date of the meeting of shareholders. Only shareholders of record on the date fixed shall be so entitled notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the Corporation after any record date fixed as provided in this subsection. When a determination of shareholders of record has been made as provided in this subsection for purposes of a meeting, the determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date for Meetings
(b) . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix a time prior to the date of payment of a distribution as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to be paid the distribution, which time shall be not more than 90 days prior to the date of payment. Only shareholders of record on the date fixed shall be so entitled notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the Corporation after any record date fixed as provided in this subsection.
Fixing Record Date for Purpose of Distributions
(c) . Before a shareholder may seek to have the shareholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent without a meeting, the shareholder must, by written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date for such consent. The request must include a brief description of the action proposed to be taken. The Board of Directors shall, within twenty days after the date on which such request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. The record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and shall not be more than twenty days after the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
(d) . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix a time prior to an event or action other than a meeting of shareholders or payment of a distribution as a record date for the determination of shareholders with respect thereto, which time shall be not more than 90 days prior to the date of the event or action.
Fixing Record Date for Other Purposes
(e) . If a record date is not fixed:
Determination When a Record Date is Not Fixed
(i) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given.
(ii) The record date for determining shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(f) . The Board of Directors may adopt a procedure whereby a shareholder of the Corporation may certify in writing to the Corporation that all or a portion of the shares registered in the name of the shareholder are held for the account of a specified person or persons. Upon receipt by the Corporation of a certification complying with the procedure, the persons specified in the certification shall be deemed, for the purposes set forth in the certification, to be the holders of record of the number of shares specified in place of the shareholder making the certification.
Certification by Nominee
Section 2.01 . The number of directors of the Corporation shall be such number as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Number
Section 2.02 . Except as otherwise provided herein, the directors of the Corporation shall be elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders to hold office until the next year's annual meeting. With regard to any director elected prior to the amendment and restatement of this Section 2.02 in 2012, Class I directors shall hold office until the annual meeting in 2013, Class II directors shall hold office until the annual meeting in 2014, and Class III directors shall hold office until the annual meeting in 2015. Each director shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Classes and Term of Office
Section 2.03 . Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. The resignation shall be effective upon receipt thereof or at such subsequent time as may be specified in the notice of resignation. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
Section 2.04 . Immediately after each annual election of directors, the Board of Directors shall meet for the purpose of organization, election of officers, and the transaction of other business, at the place where such election of directors was held. Notice of such meeting need not be given. In the absence of a quorum at said meeting, the same may be held at any other time and place which shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.05 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held on the 3rd Tuesday of each February, May, August and November or at such other time and place as shall be designated from time to time by the Board. Notice of such meetings need not be given. If the date fixed for any such regular meeting be a legal holiday under the laws of the State where such meeting is to be held, then the same shall be held on the next succeeding secular day not a legal holiday under the laws of said State, or at such other time as may be determined by resolution of the Board. At such meetings the directors may transact such business as may be brought before the meeting.
Regular Meetings
Section 2.06 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer or by two or more of the directors, and shall be held at such time and place as shall be designated in the call for the meeting. Notice of each special meeting shall be given by or at the direction of the person or persons authorized to call such meeting to each director at least one day prior to the day named for the meeting.
Special Meetings
Section 2.07 . Every meeting of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if present, and, if not, the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, a chairman chosen by a majority of the directors present. The Secretary, or in his absence, a person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary.
Organization
Section 3.01 The Board of Directors may establish one or more committees to consist of one or more directors of the Corporation. Any committee, to the extent provided by the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors except that a committee shall not have any power or authority as to the following: (i) the submission to shareholders of any action requiring approval of shareholders under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988; (ii) the creation or filling of vacancies in the Board of Directors; (iii) the adoption, amendment or repeal of the bylaws; (iv) the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board that by its terms is amendable or repealable only by the Board; (v) action on matters committed by the bylaws or resolution of the Board of Directors to another committee of the Board.
Section 4.01 . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and may include a Chairman of the Board and one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers as the Board of Directors may authorize from time to time.
Number
Section 4.02 . The Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary shall be natural persons of full age. The Treasurer may be a corporation, but if a natural person shall be of full age.
Qualifications
Section 4.03 . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and each shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.04 . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary. The resignation shall be effective upon receipt thereof or at such subsequent time as may be specified in the notice of resignation. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
Section 4.05 . If there is a Chairman of the Board, he shall preside at the meetings of the Board and at meetings of shareholders. Such Chairman of the Board shall also perform such other duties as may be specified by the Board from time to time and as do not conflict with the duties of the Chief Executive Officer.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.06 . The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have general supervision over the business and operations of the Corporation with all such powers with respect to such business and operations as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities, subject, however, to the control of the Board of Directors. He shall sign, execute, and acknowledge, in the name of the Corporation, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, and other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board to some other officer or agent of the Corporation; and, in general, he shall perform all duties incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at meetings of shareholders in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer
Section 4.07 . The President shall assist the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation in the general supervision over the business and operations of the Corporation with all such powers with respect to the management of such business and operations as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities, subject, however, to the control of the Board of Directors. He may sign, execute, and acknowledge, in the name of the Corporation, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, and other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board to some other officer or agent of the Corporation; and, in general, he shall perform all duties incident to the office of President, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws, the President shall exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer during his absence or inability to act. Any action taken by the President in the performance of the duties of the Chief Executive Officer shall be conclusive evidence of the absence or inability of the Chief Executive Officer to act at the time such action was taken. In addition, if designated by the Board of Directors, he shall preside at meetings of shareholders and directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer.
The President
Section 4.08 . In the absence or disability of the President or when so directed by the President, any Vice President designated by the Board of Directors may perform all the duties of the President, and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President; provided, however, that no Vice President shall act as a member of or as chairman of any committee of the Board of which the President is a member or chairman by designation or ex-officio, unless such Vice President is a member of the
The Vice Presidents
Board of Directors and has been designated expressly by the Board as the alternate to the President for purposes of service on such committee. The Vice Presidents shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them respectively by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
Section 4.09 . The Secretary shall record all the votes of the shareholders and of the directors and the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; he shall see that notices of meetings of the Board and shareholders are given and that all records and reports are properly kept and filed by the Corporation as required by law; he shall be the custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall see that it is affixed to all documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its seal; and, in general, he shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary, and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
The Secretary
Section 4.10 . In the absence or disability of the Secretary or when so directed by the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary may perform all the duties of the Secretary, and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the Secretary. The Assistant Secretaries shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them respectively by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
Section 4.11 . The Chief Financial Officer shall perform all the duties of Treasurer if a separate Treasurer has not been designated. The Treasurer shall have charge of all receipts and disbursements of the Corporation and shall have or provide for the custody of its funds and securities; he shall have full authority to receive and give receipts for all money due and payable to the Corporation, and to endorse checks, drafts, and warrants in its name and on its behalf and to give full discharge for the same; he shall deposit all funds of the Corporation, except such as may be required for current use, in such banks or other places of deposit as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate; and, in general, he shall perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
The Treasurer
Section 4.12 . In the absence or disability of the Treasurer or when so directed by the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer may perform all the duties of the Treasurer, and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the Treasurer. The Assistant Treasurers shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them respectively by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 5.01 . A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable for monetary damages for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, as a director except to the extent that by law a director's liability for monetary damages may not be limited.
Personal Liability of Directors
Section 5.02 . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party to or witness in, or is threatened to be made a party to or a witness in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, including actions by or in the right of the Corporation, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving while a director or officer of the Corporation at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent, fiduciary or other representative of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding unless the act or failure to act giving rise to the claim for indemnification is determined by a court to have constituted willful misconduct or recklessness.
Indemnification
Section 5.03 . Expenses incurred by an officer or director of the Corporation in connection with participating in a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding as described in Section 5.02 shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 5.04 . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or pursuant to this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, any insurance or other agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or otherwise, both as to actions in their official capacity and as to actions in another capacity while holding an office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person.
Other Rights
Section 5.05 . The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of these By-Laws.
Insurance
Section 5.06 . By action by the Board of Directors (notwithstanding their interest in the transaction) the Corporation may create and fund a trust fund or fund of any nature, and may enter into agreements with its directors, officers, employees and agents for the purpose of securing or insuring in any manner its obligation to indemnify or advance expenses provided for in this Article.
Security Fund; Indemnity Agreements
Section 5.07 . The duties of the Corporation to indemnify and to advance expenses to a director or officer provided in this Article shall be in the nature of a contract between the Corporation and each such director or officer, and no amendment or repeal of any provision of this Article, and no amendment or termination of any trust or other fund created pursuant to Section 5.06, shall alter, to the detriment of such director or officer, the right of such person to the advance of expenses or indemnification related to a claim based on an act or failure to act which took place prior to such amendment, repeal or termination.
Modification
Section 5.08 . Notwithstanding anything in this Article 5 to the contrary, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any person under Section 5.02 or advance expenses under Section 5.03 with respect to an action, suit or proceeding commenced by such person, other than mandatory counterclaims, affirmative defenses or to enforce the right to indemnification under Section 5.02 or advancement of expenses under Section 5.03.
Exception
Section 6.01 . No officer, agent or employee of the Corporation shall have any power or authority to borrow money on its behalf, to pledge its credit, or to mortgage or pledge its real or personal property, except within the scope and to the extent of the authority delegated by resolution of the Board of Directors. Authority may be given by the Board for any of the above purposes and may be general or limited to specific instances.
Borrowing, etc
Section 6.02 . All funds of the Corporation shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies, or other depositaries, or invested in such manner, as the Board of Directors may approve or designate, and all such funds shall be withdrawn only upon checks signed by, and all such investments shall be disposed of only by, such one or more officers or employees as the Board shall from time to time determine.
Deposits and Investments
Section 6.03 . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, any officer of the Corporation may appoint an attorney or attorneys (who may be or include such officer himself), in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder or otherwise in any other corporation or other entity, any of whose shares or other securities are held by or for the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the shares or other securities of such other corporation or other entity, or, in connection with the ownership of such shares or other securities, to consent in writing to any action by such other corporation or other entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its seal such written proxies or other instruments as the officer may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
Section 7.01 . Share certificates in the form prescribed by the Board of Directors, shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, but such signatures may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer because of death, resignation, or otherwise, before the certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if the officer had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue.
Share Certificates
Section 7.02 . The Corporation or a Registrar or Transfer Agent of the Corporation shall maintain books in which the ownership and transfer of the Corporation's shares shall be definitively registered. Transfer of share certificates and the shares represented thereby shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the owner thereof or by the owner's attorney thereunto authorized, by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a Transfer Agent of the Corporation, and on surrender of the share certificates.
Transfer of Shares
Section 7.03 . The Corporation may, if and whenever the Board of Directors so determines, maintain, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or any other state of the United States, one or more transfer offices or agencies, each in charge of a Transfer Agent designated by the Board, where the shares of the Corporation shall be transferable, and also one or more registry offices, each in charge of a Registrar (which may also be a Transfer Agent) designated by the Board, where such shares shall be registered; and no certificates for shares of the Corporation in respect of which a Transfer Agent shall have been designated shall be valid unless countersigned by such Transfer Agent and no certificates for shares of the Corporation in respect of which a Registrar shall have been designated shall be valid unless registered by such Registrar. The Board may also make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of its shares.
Transfer Agent and Registrar; Regulations
Section 7.04 . The Board of Directors, by standing resolution or by resolutions with respect to particular cases, may authorize the issue of new share certificates in lieu of share certificates lost, destroyed or mutilated, upon such terms and conditions as the Board may direct.
Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates
Section 8.01 . The provisions of Section 2538(a) and Subchapters E, F, G and H of Chapter 25 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, and any corresponding provisions of succeeding law, shall not be applicable to the Corporation.
Non-Applicability of Certain Provisions of Law
Section 8.02 . The fiscal year of the Corporation ends on the 31st day of January in each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 9.01 Except as otherwise provided by the Business Corporation Law of 1988, the authority to adopt, amend and repeal these By-Laws is expressly vested in the Board of Directors, subject to the power of the shareholders to change such action. No provision of these By-Laws shall vest any property right in any shareholder as such.


