Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected data presented below as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, and for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the periods from inception (April 21, 2000) through December 31, 2002 and 2000 is derived from the consolidated financial statements of Wynn Resorts or Valvino as its predecessor, which 51 have been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the periods from inception through December 31, 2002 and 2000, and the auditors report thereon, are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year EndedDecember 31,2002 Year EndedDecember 31,2001 Period fromInception toDecember 31,2000 Period from Inception toDecember 31,2002 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenues $ 1,159 $ 1,157 $ 87 $ 2,403 Pre opening costs (25,147 ) (11,862 ) (5,706 ) (42,715 ) Operating loss (34,400 ) (20,060 ) (12,033 ) (66,493 ) Net loss accumulated during the development stage (31,713 ) (17,726 ) (10,616 ) (60,055 ) Basic and diluted loss per share $ (0.68 ) $ (0.45 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (1.44 ) As of December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 109,644 $ 39,268 $ 54,429 Construction in progress 90,189 27,475 8,484 Total assets 1,398,601 388,543 387,084 Total long term obligations(2) 382,191 326 358 Stockholders equity $ 991,613 $ 384,230 $ 381,956 (1) Excludes approximately $792.9 million and $524,000 of restricted cash and investments as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. As of December 31, 2001, restricted cash and investments balances related primarily to certain certificates of deposits to collateralize certain construction insurance claims as well as required sales tax deposits. At December 31, 2002, in addition to these deposits, cash and cash equivalents excludes the majority of the proceeds of the initial public offering of our common stock and the issuance of the Notes, which are restricted by various agreements, including the Disbursement Agreement, which govern the availability of and generally restrict such funds for construction costs of Le R&ecirc;ve. These funds are held in relatively short term government backed debt securities. (2) Includes the current portion of long term debt amounting to approximately $38,000, $35,000 and $32,000 as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements in Part I, Item. 1. Overview In June 2000, the Company acquired the Desert Inn Resort & Casino (the Desert Inn) assets from Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and ceased operations of the Desert Inn after approximately ten weeks. The Company has demolished some of the buildings that constituted the Desert Inn in anticipation of the 52 construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. The remaining structures have been and will continue to be utilized as offices at least through the completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. Since the Company ceased operating the Desert Inn, our efforts have been devoted principally to the development activities described below with respect to Le R&ecirc;ve and Wynn Macaus opportunity in Macau. In addition, the financial position and operating results of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC which comprise principally the ownership and operation of a corporate aircraft, are included in the Companys financial statements. Moreover, we continue to operate an art gallery displaying works from The Wynn Collection, which consists of artwork from the personal art collection of Stephen A. and Elaine Wynn. Through June 2002, we also operated the golf course located on the site of the Desert Inn. At December 31, 2002, the Companys principal assets included the proceeds of the initial public offering of its common stock and its debt financing subject to various restrictions on the use of such proceeds, the Desert Inn site and equity interests in the Companys various subsidiaries, including a majority interest in Wynn Macau, a foreign subsidiary that has entered into a concession agreement with the government of Macau permitting it to conduct casino gaming operations in Macau. Development and Construction Activities Our activities have included arranging the design, construction and financing of Le R&ecirc;ve and applying for certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for the development and operation of Le R&ecirc;ve. We are constructing and plan to operate Le R&ecirc;ve as part of a world class destination casino resort which, together with the new golf course located behind the hotel, will occupy approximately 192 acres of a 212 acre parcel of land on the Las Vegas Strip in Las Vegas, Nevada. Construction of Le R&ecirc;ve began with groundbreaking in October 2002 and we expect Le R&ecirc;ve to commence operations in April 2005. The Company is subject to a number of uncertainties relating to the development of the Le R&ecirc;ve project, including, but not limited to, the timing of the construction, changes in the guaranteed maximum price contract due to delays or certain other issues and completion guarantees. Construction projects of this nature entail significant risks, and the anticipated costs and construction schedule are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and schedule estimates. As construction progresses, there is always a possibility that delays and construction change orders may occur. Such delays or change orders could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and operations. We have also spent considerable time preparing and presenting to the Macau government a proposal that ultimately resulted in obtaining a concession to engage in gaming activities in Macau. On June 24, 2002, Wynn Macau entered into a 20 year concession agreement with the government of Macau granting Wynn Macau the right to construct and operate one or more casinos in Macau. The concession agreement obligates Wynn Macau to invest no less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately US $515.6 million at the March 10, 2003 exchange rate) in Macau related projects by June 26, 2009 and to commence operations of its first permanent casino resort in Macau no later than December 2006. Wynn Macau has entered into a $574,000 pre construction services agreement with a third party joint venture for: (i) development of the Contractors Proposal, (ii) negotiation of the Contractors Proposal, and (iii) negotiation and execution of the construction contract. If Wynn Macau does not invest 4 billion patacas by June 26, 2009, it is obligated to invest the remaining amount in projects related to its gaming operations in Macau that the Macau government approves, or in projects of public interest designated by the Macau government. However, Wynn Macau will not begin construction or operation of any casino in Macau until a number of objectives and conditions are met, including: obtaining sufficient financing, obtaining the ability to extend credit to gaming customers and enforce gaming debts in Macau and obtaining relief from the complementary income tax and the withholding tax on dividends imposed in Macau. Based on our discussions with government officials, we believe legislative changes relating to these matters will be enacted in 2003. However, we cannot assure you that such proposed legislative changes will be enacted. As of December 31, 2002, Wynn Macau was majority owned by the Company through a series of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, none of which is a guarantor of, or otherwise restricted by, the Notes or the other debt facilities related to Le R&ecirc;ve. 53 Results of Operations As is customary for a development stage company, the Company has not commenced principal operations and therefore revenues are not significant. Consequently, the Company has incurred losses in each period from inception to December 31, 2002. Management expects these losses to continue until planned principal operations have commenced. The Company does not expect that its operating results prior to opening Le R&ecirc;ve will be indicative of operating results thereafter. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate Le R&ecirc;ve at a profit once it is completed. Results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the year ended December 31, 2001 The Companys development operations resulted in a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2002, of approximately $31.7 million, a 79% increase over the net loss of approximately $17.7 million for the comparable year ended December 31, 2001, due generally to increased development activities. Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002, were nearly consistent with the year ended December 31, 2001. The Company sold its original aircraft in February 2002 and purchased a new aircraft concurrent with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC. The new aircraft is not licensed for charter services; consequently, charter revenues, which now consist solely of fees charged for usage by officers of the Company, have decreased by $448,000 or 42% to $629,000 in 2002 from $1.1 million in 2001. Offsetting the decrease in aircraft revenues are increases in revenues from the art gallery and the retail shop, which were opened in November 2001. Total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased approximately $14.3 million, or 68%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001 primarily due to an approximately $13.3 million increase in pre opening costs, a loss from incidental operations of approximately $700,000, and approximately $771,000 of increased depreciation expense offset by the absence of facility closure expenses relating to the 2001 closure of the Desert Inn. The increase in pre opening costs, which consist primarily of salaries and wages and consulting and legal fees, is directly attributable to an increase in pre opening activities as compared to the same period in the prior year. Management expects pre opening costs to continue to increase as development of Le R&ecirc;ve progresses. Depreciation expenses increased primarily due to the addition of the new aircraft in May 2002, while incidental operations incurred a loss due to the closure of the golf course in summer 2002. Other income net for the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased approximately $513,000 from the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily as a result of an approximately $1.3 million increase in interest income from 2002 to 2001, offset by an approximately $1.9 million increase in interest expenses. Higher interest income is attributable mainly to the significant increase in cash from the net proceeds from equity and debt financing activity, while increased outstanding debt resulting from the aircraft purchase in May 2002 and subsequent refinancing from the FF&E Facility increased the interest expense. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 The Company recognized a loss of approximately $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, related to pre opening costs and depreciation of facilities acquired in the acquisition of the Desert Inn, an approximate increase of 67% from the loss incurred during the period from inception (April 21, 2000) to December 2000 of approximately $10.6 million. Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $1.1 million from the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased charter revenues from third parties recognized by Las Vegas Jet, LLC, which was previously wholly owned by Mr. Wynn, from approximately $715,000 for the year ended December 31, 2001. In addition, revenues of approximately $80,000 were 54 recognized for the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily as a result of the art gallery and retail shop opening in November 2001. Total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $9.1 million as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased pre opening costs associated with Le R&ecirc;ve and depreciation and amortization expenses which were partially offset by lower facility closure expense and losses from incidental operations. This resulted in an increase in net operating losses of approximately $8.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000. Pre opening costs, which consist primarily of salaries and wages and consulting and legal fees, for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $6.2 million, as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased pre opening activities and approximately four additional months of costs being recognized during the year ended December 31, 2001 than in the period from inception to December 31, 2000. Similarly, depreciation and amortization recognized for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects 12 months of expenses as compared to approximately eight months of expenses recognized in the period from inception to December 31, 2000. This resulted in increased depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 of approximately $4.1 million. Facility closure expenses were approximately $833,000 less for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000, primarily because a majority of the costs incurred for the period from inception to December 31, 2000 related to the closing of the Desert Inn Resort & Casino, which was completed in August 2000. During the period from inception to December 31, 2000, the Company recognized a net loss from incidental operations of approximately $1.2 million as compared to no recognized net loss for the year ended December 31, 2001. The net loss in 2000 was attributable to the incidental casino and hotel operations incurred prior to its closing in August 2000. Other income net increased approximately $917,000 in the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of an approximate $928,000 increase in interest income in 2001. Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects interest earned for the 12 month period whereas interest income for the period from inception to December 31, 2000 reflects interest earned for approximately eight months. Certain trends that may affect development activities and future results of operations In the near term, our development activities may be impacted by various economic factors, including, among other things, the availability and cost of materials, the availability of labor resources, interest rate levels and, specifically in connection with the Macau opportunity, foreign exchange rates. The strength and profitability of our business after Le R&ecirc;ve opens will depend on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities that Le R&ecirc;ve will offer. Adverse changes in consumer preferences or discretionary income could harm our business. In particular, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and ongoing terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, have had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. In addition to fears of war in the Mideast and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, could reduce customer demand for the products and services we will offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. Also, in his recent State of the State address on January 20, 2003, in response to the states budget deficit, the Governor of Nevada proposed significant increases in cigarette and alcohol taxes, corporate filing fees and slot machine license fees and also proposed a new gross receipts tax which would levy an additional % tax on gross receipts of Nevada businesses. Although we cannot currently predict the likelihood of the implementation of such proposals, the imposition of additional taxes and license fees and a state gross receipts tax would, if enacted, significantly increase our tax liabilities and reduce our cash flows and net income accordingly. 55 Upon opening Le R&ecirc;ve we believe that a nominal decline in the strength of the U.S. economy or the amount of disposable income available to individuals would not have a material effect on our results of operations, however, a material decline in the strength of the U.S. economy or the amount of disposable income available to individuals could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Material Transactions Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Since Valvinos (Wynn Resorts predecessor) inception on April 21, 2000, there have been a number of transactions that have had a significant impact on the Companys liquidity. Our operations have required substantial capital investment for the acquisition of the land on which Le R&ecirc;ve will be located and development of Le R&ecirc;ve. Capital Contributions and Distributions Stephen A. Wynn organized Valvino and initially was its sole member. Between April of 2000 and September of 2000, Mr. Wynn made equity contributions to Valvino in an aggregate amount of approximately $220.7 million. On June 15, 2000, Mr. Wynn loaned Valvino $100 million at an interest rate of 7.875% per year. In July 2000, Valvino used proceeds from a $125 million loan agreement with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as lead arranger, and Bankers Trust Company, as administrative agent, to make an approximately $110.5 million equity distribution to Mr. Wynn. At the time of this distribution, Mr. Wynn was the only member of Valvino. On October 3, 2000, Aruze USA made a contribution of $260 million in cash ($250 million net of finders fee) to Valvino in exchange for 50% of the membership interests in Valvino and was admitted as a member of Valvino. Mr. Wynn was designated as the managing member of Valvino. On October 3, 2000, $70 million of Mr. Wynns loan was repaid out of the proceeds of this capital contribution and on October 10, 2000, the Deutsche Bank loan discussed above was repaid in full. The remaining approximately $32.3 million balance of Mr. Wynns loan, including accrued interest, was converted to equity as a member contribution. On April 16, 2001, Baron Asset Fund, a Massachusetts business trust, made a contribution of $20.8 million in cash ($20 million net of finders fees) to Valvino in exchange for approximately 3.7% of the membership interests in Valvino and was admitted as a member of Valvino. Immediately following the admission of Baron Asset Fund, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA each owned approximately 48.2% of the membership interests in Valvino. In April 2002, Mr. Wynn, Aruze USA and Baron Asset Fund each made the following further capital contributions to Valvino: Mr. Wynn contributed approximately $32 million in cash plus his 90% interest in Wynn Macau, which in June 2002 entered into a concession agreement with the government of Macau permitting it to construct and operate one or more casinos in Macau. The $32 million contribution was comprised of approximately $22.5 million of cash deposited in a Macau bank account which Mr. Wynn assigned to Valvino, Mr. Wynns right to be reimbursed for approximately $825,000 advanced to Wynn Macau and an additional $8.6 million in cash. Mr. Wynns 90% interest in Wynn Macau, the principal asset of which was a provisional license to negotiate a concession agreement with the Macau government, had no historical cost basis. This interest was valued at approximately $56 million by the parties to the negotiation of Mr. Wynns contribution of his interest. For financial statement purposes, as a combination of entities under common control, the contribution of Mr. Wynns 90% interest in Wynn Macau was recorded at carryover basis (with the primary asset recorded in the financial statements being the approximate $22.5 million of cash) rather than fair value. However, Mr. Wynns 56 resulting 47.5% ownership interest in Valvino, after these contributions, reflects the fair value of his investment in Wynn Macau relative to the fair value of the contributions from Aruze USA and Baron Asset Fund; Aruze USA contributed an additional $120 million in cash; and Baron Asset Fund contributed an additional approximately $20.3 million in cash. Immediately following these additional capital contributions, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA each owned 47.5% of the membership interests and Baron Asset Fund owned 5% of the membership interests in Valvino. The percentage of membership interests held by Baron Asset Fund were held by it on behalf of two series of Baron Asset Funds: (1) approximately 3.6% of the membership interests in Valvino for the Baron Asset Fund Series, and (2) approximately 1.4% of the membership interests in Valvino for the Baron Growth Fund Series. Neither Mr. Wynn nor Aruze USA increased their relative ownership interests as a result of the April 2002 capital contributions. On June 24, 2002, the Kenneth R. Wynn Family Trust contributed $1.2 million in cash to Valvino in exchange for 0.146% of the outstanding membership interests in Valvino. On September 24, 2002, all the members of Valvino contributed 100% of the membership interests in Valvino to the Company in a tax free exchange for 40,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock, making Valvino and its subsidiaries a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Acquisitions On June 22, 2000, Valvino acquired the Desert Inn from Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., including the Desert Inn golf course and some, but not all, of the residential lots located in the interior of and around the golf course, for approximately $270 million in cash. In connection with that transaction, Valvino and its subsidiaries also acquired approximately 985 acre feet of certificated water rights. In addition to acquiring the assets of the Desert Inn, Valvino assumed most of its liabilities, and, to the extent assignable, all of its contracts. Valvino later acquired all of the remaining lots located in the interior of, and some of the remaining lots around, the golf course for a total of $47.8 million, bringing the size of the parcel to approximately 212 acres. On August 28, 2000, Valvino closed the Desert Inn and, in June of 2002, Valvino closed the golf course at the site. Since then, Valvino has been engaged primarily in the development of Le R&ecirc;ve. On April 1, 2001, the Company acquired Kevyn, LLC, a previously unconsolidated affiliate which was wholly owned by Mr. Wynn and whose principal asset was an airplane, for approximately $10 million. The acquisition was treated as a reorganization of entities under common control. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations, the assets and liabilities acquired have been recorded at the carrying value at the time of the acquisition and the operating results of Kevyn, LLC are included in the operating statements of the Company from the earliest period presented. As a result, the previously separate historical financial position and results of operations of Kevyn, LLC are combined with the financial position and results of operations of the Company for all periods presented. Additionally, effective June 28, 2001, the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada approved the transfer of ownership of Desert Inn Water Company, also a previously unconsolidated affiliate and wholly owned company of Mr. Wynn, to the Company. As the Desert Inn Water Company consisted entirely of all of the shares of Desert Inn Improvement Company whose assets primarily consisted of water rights, this transaction was treated as an acquisition of assets for financial reporting purposes. The Company exchanged the receivable from the Desert Inn Water Company in this acquisition, which was equivalent to the fair market value of the water rights of $6.4 million. In May 2002, the Company acquired World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC (entities previously wholly owned by Mr. Wynn). The acquisitions were accounted for as reorganizations of entities under common 57 control. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of these entities have been recorded at the carrying value at the time of the acquisition and the operating results of the entities are included in the operating statements of the Company from the earliest period presented. As a result, the previously separate historical financial position and results of operations of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC are combined with the financial position and results of operations of the Company for all periods presented. Financings On October 25, 2002, Wynn Resorts completed the initial public offering of 34,615,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $13 per share. The common stock trades on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol WYNN. Stephen A. Wynn, Chairman of the Board, CEO and a principal stockholder of Wynn Resorts, and Aruze USA, another principal stockholder of Wynn Resorts, collectively purchased approximately 11,150,000 of these shares directly from the Company at the $13 per share price. Total proceeds of approximately $450 million were reduced by underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million and legal and professional expenses directly incurred with respect to the offering of approximately $4.1 million for net proceeds to the Company of approximately $426.4 million, which will be used to finance construction of Le R&ecirc;ve and provide $40 million for the additional intended investment in Macau. Concurrent with the initial public offering, two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company (Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Capital) issued $370 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas entered into the Revolver, the Term Loan and the FF&E Facility for additional construction and furniture, fixtures and equipment financing for Le R&ecirc;ve. See Description of Certain Indebtedness below for additional information. The Notes were issued for proceeds of approximately $343.3 million net of an original issue discount of approximately $26.7 million. The proceeds were further reduced by approximately $10.1 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and approximately $4.3 million of legal and professional expenses, all of which are capitalized and amortized over the term of the Notes using the effective interest method. Net proceeds were approximately $328.9 million and will be used to finance the development and construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, to pay pre opening expenses and meet debt service obligations. In addition to the offering costs associated with the initial public offering of the Companys common stock and the issuance of the Notes, approximately $47.3 million of legal and professional expenses were incurred in connection with the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. These expenses are capitalized and amortized over the terms of the respective facilities. Wynn Resorts has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment in full of the Credit Facilities, the FF&E Facility and the Notes on an unsecured basis, but is not directly subject to the restrictive covenants in its subsidiaries debt facilities. However, if Wynn Resorts grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness, it will be required to secure the guarantees of the Credit Facilities and the Notes on a pari passu basis. Wynn Resorts domestic and foreign subsidiaries related to the Macau opportunity are not guarantors or restricted entities and will not be subject to the covenants in the Notes or the Credit Facilities. In addition, a $30.0 million liquidity reserve account has been established and a special purpose subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas has been capitalized with $50 million of the equity proceeds and provides a completion guarantee in favor of the lenders under the Credit Facilities and the Notes to secure completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. After completion of Le R&ecirc;ve, any remaining amounts will be released to the Company. On November 11, 2002 the underwriters to the initial public offering exercised a 3,219,173 share over allotment option in full, resulting in additional net proceeds of approximately $38.9 million, net of the underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $2.9 million. In connection with the acquisitions of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC, the Company partially financed the purchase of a private jet aircraft for $38.0 million with the issuance of a note payable for 58 $28.5 million collateralized by the aircraft. In November 2002, the Company withdrew $38.0 million against the FF&E Facility to repay the note payable secured by the aircraft acquired in connection with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC. The unused portion of the draw will be used for construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. Expected Capital Resources and Commercial Commitments At December 31, 2002, the Company had approximately $109.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. In addition, the Company had approximately $792.9 million in restricted cash and investments from the proceeds of the debt and equity financings discussed above and restricted in accordance with the Disbursement Agreement described below, including the $80.0 million restricted for the liquidity reserve account and the completion guarantee as also discussed below. The restricted cash and investments also includes approximately $2.5 million in cash restricted to collateralize certain construction insurance claims and sales tax deposits. Cash equivalents are comprised of investments in overnight money market funds. Restricted investments are kept in money market funds or relatively short term, government backed marketable debt securities as required by the Disbursement Agreement. As of December 31, 2002, approximately $577.0 million of the total Le R&ecirc;ve project cost of approximately $2.4 billion (including the cost of the land, capitalized interest, pre opening expenses and all financing fees) had been expended or incurred to fund the development, and begin construction, of Le R&ecirc;ve. The remaining development and construction costs for Le R&ecirc;ve are expected to be funded from a combination of our cash on hand from contributed capital and a majority of the net proceeds of the initial public offering of the Companys common stock and the Notes, and additional borrowings under the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our expected long term indebtedness and material commercial commitments based upon our best estimate at December 31, 2002 of our expected long term indebtedness and commercial commitments (amounts in millions): Payments Due By Period Long Term Indebtedness Total Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Revolving credit facility(1) $ 726.4 $ $ $ $ 726.4 Delay draw term loan facility(2) 250.0 10.0 90.0 150.0 FF&E facility(3) 188.5 10.1 88.5 89.9 Second mortgage notes 370.0 370.0 Other long term obligations(4) 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total long term indebtedness $ 1,535.2 $ $ 20.2 $ 178.6 $ 1,336.4 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Other Commercial Commitments Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Construction contracts(5) $ 979.4 $ 416.7 $ 562.7 $ $ Macau concession agreement(6) 515.6 515.6 Employment agreements(7) 42.4 10.0 20.2 12.2 Other commercial commitments(8) 2.9 2.9 Total commercial commitments $ 1,540.3 $ 429.6 $ 582.9 $ 12.2 $ 515.6 (1) As of December 31, 2002, we have not borrowed any amounts under the Revolver, however, we anticipate that drawing approximately $726.4 million to fund the design, construction, development, equipping and opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, assuming that Le R&ecirc;ve is completed on schedule. An additional $23.6 million is available under the Revolver, subject to certain limitations. Once the total extensions of credit under the Revolver equal or exceed $200 million, lead arrangers holding a majority of the commitments of the lead 59 arrangers under that facility will have the right to convert between $100 million and $400 million of the outstanding revolving loans into term loans on the same terms and conditions as the term loans under the delay draw term loan facility or on such other terms as we and the administrative agent and syndication agent can agree. In addition, the Revolver will provide for a cash flow sweep each year that will reduce the commitment under that facility by the amount of the cash swept. (2) As of December 31, 2002, we have not borrowed any amounts under the Term Loan, however we anticipate drawing the entire available balance in the future for additional funding of the construction and development of Le R&ecirc;ve. Term Loans will be repayable in quarterly installments from the first full fiscal quarter after completion of Le R&ecirc;ve until the seventh anniversary of the closing in amounts to be determined in accordance with the terms of the Credit Facilities. (3) As of December 31, 2002, we have borrowed approximately $38.0 million under the FF&E Facility. Approximately $28.5 million of these borrowings were used to refinance a loan, secured by a mortgage on World Travels Bombardier Global Express aircraft, made by Bank of America, N.A. to World Travel, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas. The remaining $9.5 million of currently borrowed funds and the unused portion of the $188.5 million facility is expected to provide funds for furniture, fixtures and equipment to be used at Le R&ecirc;ve. (4) Represents the amount owing pursuant to an annuity issued by ITT Sheraton in connection with the acquisition of a parcel of land in 1994. The annuity bears interest at an annual rate of 8% and requires payment of $5,000 per month until February 2009. The Company assumed the obligations under the annuity in connection with its acquisition of the Desert Inn. (5) Represents obligations under our signed construction contracts with Marnell Corrao and Bomel Construction Company, Inc. We expect to sign additional contracts for the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. We expect to satisfy some of the payment obligations under these contracts using amounts borrowed under the long term indebtedness shown above. (6) The Macau concession agreement requires Wynn Macau to invest 4 billion Patacas (approximately $515.6 million) on one or more casino projects over a seven year period. Wynn Macau is obligated to operate its first casino in Macau by December 2006. The full contractual commitment is shown as having to be made after five years, but the timing of the expenditures is subject to change. In addition, contractual obligations are stated in Macau Patacas and therefore the amount of commitment as expressed in US dollars may be subject to increases depending on fluctuations in the foreign rate of exchange. (7) We have entered into employment agreements with several executive officers, other members of management, and certain key employees. These agreements generally have three to five year terms, typically indicate a base salary with specified annual increases, and often contain provisions for guaranteed bonuses. If we terminate certain executives without cause or if certain executives terminate employment with us for good reason following a change of control (as these terms are defined in the employment contracts), we will pay the executive a separation payment in a lump sum, which typically is equal to the base salary of the remaining term of the employment contract plus foregone bonuses, plus certain other payments. (8) Includes a standby letter of credit for our owner controlled insurance program and a $574,000 Macau pre construction services agreement. Description of Certain Indebtedness The following discussion summarizes the material terms of certain material debt agreements to which certain of our subsidiaries will be parties. However, this summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the relevant agreements described herein. References to the restricted entities or to the Guarantors mean Valvino; Wynn Resorts Holdings; Wynn Design & Development, LLC; World Travel, LLC; Las Vegas Jet, LLC; Desert Inn Water Company, LLC and Palo, LLC and references to the Issuers mean Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Capital. 60 Second Mortgage Notes On October 30, 2002, the Issuers, issued the Notes maturing November 1, 2010 with semi annual interest payments beginning in May 2003. The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed by Wynn Resorts, Limited as the parent company and certain other subsidiary guarantors, are secured by a first priority security interest in the net proceeds of the offering and a second priority security interest in substantially all the assets of the Issuers and certain restricted subsidiaries, and rank senior in right of payment to all of the Issuers existing and future subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the Notes contain certain affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Issuers and the restricted entities, including limitations on additional indebtedness, declaration and payment of dividends (see Part I, Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters; Dividends), issuance of preferred stock and equity interests of wholly owned subsidiaries, certain payments or investments, golf course and Phase II land development, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, sale leaseback transactions, and various other restrictions as defined in the Indenture. While Wynn Resorts is not subject to a majority of the restrictive covenants in the Indenture, pursuant to the terms of its parent guaranty, if it grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness it will be required to grant pari passu liens on the same assets to secure its parent guaranty of the Notes. As of December 31, 2002, the Company is in compliance with all such covenants. Other than mandatory redemption required by gaming authorities resulting from unsuitable persons, the Issuers will not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments. However, if a change of control occurs, the holders of the Notes may require the Issuers to repurchase all or part of the Notes at 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest. In addition, after November 1, 2006, the Issuers may elect to redeem all or part of the Notes at the redemption prices below, plus accrued interest on the redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve month period beginning on November 1 of the years below: Year Percentage 2006 112 % 2007 108 % 2008 104 % 2009 and thereafter 100 % Credit Facilities Effective October 30, 2002, Wynn Las Vegas entered into the Credit Facilities for additional construction financing for Le R&ecirc;ve. The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by Wynn Resorts as the parent company, Valvino and its subsidiaries, and certain of Valvinos affiliates. While Wynn Resorts is not subject to a majority of the restrictive covenants in the Credit Facilities, pursuant to the terms of its parent guaranty, if it grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness it will be required to grant pari passu liens on the same assets to secure its parent guaranty of the Credit Facilities. The Credit Facilities are also secured by a first priority security interest in a $30.0 million liquidity reserve account as further described below, a first priority pledge of all equity interests in, and a first priority security interest in substantially all the assets of, Wynn Las Vegas, Wynn Capital and the restricted entities, first mortgages on all real property constituting Le R&ecirc;ve, and a second priority security interest on the furniture, fixtures and equipment securing the FF&E Facility described below. The Revolver and the Term Loan mature in October 2008 and October 2009, respectively. Prior to the opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, annual interest is charged on outstanding borrowings at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 4% on the Revolver and LIBOR plus 5.5% on the Term Loan. Subsequent to the opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, the rates will be adjusted based upon a leverage ratio. In addition, the Revolver will require quarterly payments on the unused available borrowings at an annual rate of 2%, while the Term Loan will require quarterly payments at an annual rate of 2.5% through December 31, 2002, 3% from January 1, 2003 to June 30, 2003 and 4% thereafter. Wynn Las Vegas will be required to obtain interest rate protection through interest rate swaps, caps or other similar arrangements against increases in the interest rates with respect to not less than $125 million of Term Loan availability, and up to $200 million of Revolver loans that are converted to Term Loans. 61 When borrowings outstanding under the Revolver equal or exceed $200 million, lead arrangers holding a majority of the commitments will have the right to convert $100 million to $400 million of the amounts outstanding to term loans with the same terms and conditions as those made under Term Loan facility. The Term Loan provides for draws of funds under one or more term loans no more frequently than once per month for 27 months after the closing. Once repaid, term loans may not be reborrowed. The Issuers and Guarantors are required to comply with several affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on additional indebtedness, guarantees, dividends, transactions with affiliates, capital expenditures, asset sales and others. There are also several financial covenants including the maintenance of a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), total debt to EBITDA and net worth. As of December 31, 2002, the Company is in compliance with all such covenants. FF&E Facility Effective October 30, 2002, Wynn Las Vegas entered the FF&E Facility to provide financing and refinancing for furniture, fixtures and equipment to be used at Le R&ecirc;ve. The proceeds from the FF&E Facility may also be used to refinance a replacement corporate aircraft, in which case, Wynn Las Vegas would request the FF&E lenders to increase the total commitment under the FF&E Facility by $10 million to $198.5 million. In connection with the acquisitions of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC, the Company partially financed the purchase of a private jet aircraft for $38.0 million with the issuance of a note payable for $28.5 million collateralized by the aircraft. In November 2002, the Company withdrew $38.0 million against the FF&E Facility to repay the note payable secured by the aircraft acquired in connection with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC. The unused portion of the draw will be used for construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. The FF&E Facility is guaranteed by the same guarantors as the Credit Facilities, on a senior unsecured basis, matures in October 2009, and has substantially the same interest rates and elections as the Revolver discussed above. Disbursement Agreement The Company has entered into an agreement (the Disbursement Agreement) with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as the bank agent and disbursement agent, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as the second mortgage note trustee, and Wells Fargo Bank Nevada, National Association as the FF&E agent, which sets forth the Companys material obligations to construct and complete Le R&ecirc;ve, establishes a line item budget and schedule for its construction and establishes the conditions to, and the relative sequencing of, the making of disbursements from the proceeds of the Notes, the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. The Disbursement Agreement restricts the Companys use of the proceeds of the Notes, the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility to only project costs related to Le R&ecirc;ve and, subject to certain limitations, corporate overhead and related costs. In order to facilitate the funding of disbursements in accordance with the Disbursement Agreement, the Company established certain accounts including, but not limited to, the Completion Guarantee Deposit Account and the Liquidity Reserve Account discussed in further detail below, which are pledged to the lenders under the Credit Facilities and, with respect to the secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the holders of the Notes. Prior to borrowing any amounts under the Credit Facilities or the FF&E Facility or receiving any disbursements from the secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the Company is required to use a substantial portion of the equity offering proceeds and other available funds to commence construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. At that point the proceeds of the Notes, other than amounts sufficient to pay interest, will be used; followed thereafter by the proceeds of the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. However, as a condition to borrowing amounts under the Credit Facilities or the FF&E Facility or receiving any disbursements from the 62 secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the Company is required to submit evidence acceptable to the third party construction consultant that construction of Le R&ecirc;ve has been completed at the time of such borrowing in accordance with the plans and specifications, on budget and on schedule. Completion Guarantee and Liquidity Reserve The Company contributed $50 million of the net proceeds of the equity offering to Wynn Completion Guarantor, LLC, a special purpose subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas formed in October 2002 to provide a completion guarantee in favor of the lenders under the Credit Facilities and the Notes to secure completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. The funds were deposited into a required escrow Completion Guarantee Deposit Account. These funds will gradually be available to apply to the cost of the project, commencing after 50% of the construction work has been completed. After completion of Le R&ecirc;ve, any remaining amounts will be released to the Company. In addition, the Company deposited $30.0 million from the net proceeds of the equity offering into a required escrow Liquidity Reserve Account to secure the completion and opening of Le R&ecirc;ve. The lenders under the Credit Facilities have a first priority security interest and the holders of the Notes have a perfected second priority security interest in these funds. These funds will gradually be available to apply to the cost of the project, commencing after 50% of the construction work has been completed. Any amounts remaining upon completion will be used for debt service under the Credit Facilities and the Notes, and if consolidated EBITDA levels permit, to reduce the Revolver. Financing for the Macau Opportunity We intend to invest at least $40 million of the net proceeds from the initial public offering in Wynn Macau as part of the financing of the Macau opportunity. The indirect minority investors in Wynn Macau have agreed to participate in this additional investment along with Wynn Resorts to the extent of their proportionate effective interests in Wynn Macau (17.5% in the aggregate). It is expected that significant additional financing will be needed to fund the development, construction and operation of one or more casinos in Macau. Wynn Macau has entered into a $574,000 pre construction services agreement with a third party joint venture for: (i) development of the Contractors Proposal, (ii) negotiation of the Contractors Proposal, and (iii) negotiation and execution of the construction contract. Wynn Macau has also begun preliminary discussions to arrange the additional financing, and is considering different alternatives, including debt financing or additional equity financing at the Wynn Macau level or at the level of Wynn Macaus intermediary holding companies. At the present time, Wynn Macau has not yet determined the amount of financing that will be required to complete its first casino resort. If Wynn Resorts decides to raise additional equity at the Wynn Resorts level or at the Wynn Macau or intermediary holding company level to fund the Macau opportunity, its stockholders would suffer direct or indirect dilution of their interests. Wynn Macau currently has no commitments relating to any third party financing. Except for Wynn Resorts, we do not expect financing for any such project to be provided by or through any of the issuers or guarantors of the Notes or any other indebtedness relating to the Le R&ecirc;ve project. After construction of Wynn Macaus first casino resort, Wynn Macau intends to satisfy its remaining financial obligations, if any, under the concession agreement through the development of future phased expansions and, possibly, additional casino resorts. Other Liquidity Matters New business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. For example, we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in Las Vegas or other domestic or international markets such as Illinois, whether through acquisition, investment or development. Any such development would require us to obtain additional financing. We may also decide to conduct any such development through Wynn Resorts or through a line of subsidiaries separate from the Le R&ecirc;ve entities. In addition, Wynn Resorts articles of incorporation provide that Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to 63 the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects. Any promissory note that Wynn Resorts issues to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares may increase our debt to equity ratio and will increase our leverage ratio. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements of the Company were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Certain of our accounting policies, including the estimated lives of our depreciable assets, our annual evaluation of assets for impairment and the purchase price allocations made in connection with acquisitions, require that management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. Judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. As of, and for the period from inception to December 31, 2002, management does not believe there are any highly uncertain matters or other underlying assumptions that would have a material effect on the statement of financial position or results of operations of the Company if actual results differ from our estimates. Critical accounting policies currently reflected in the consolidated financial statements primarily relate to expensing pre opening costs as incurred, capitalizing construction costs, including portions of interest attributable to certain qualifying assets, and other policies related to our development stage status. During the period of the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, direct costs such as those expected to be incurred for the design and construction of the hotel and casino, the championship golf course and the water based entertainment production, including interest, are capitalized. Accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment will increase significantly. Depreciation expense related to the capitalized construction costs will not be recognized until the related assets are put in service. Accordingly, upon completion of construction and commencement of operation of Le R&ecirc;ve, depreciation expense recognized based on the estimated useful life of the corresponding asset will have a significant effect on the results of our operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 prohibits the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142, which is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2002, requires, among other things, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. In addition, the standard includes provisions for the reclassification of certain existing intangibles as goodwill, reassessment of the useful lives of existing intangibles and ongoing assessments of potential impairment of existing goodwill. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had no goodwill but did have intangible assets consisting of a trademark and water rights with indefinite useful lives. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement on January 1, 2002 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain obligations of lessees. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived 64 assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. The provisions of this Statement are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company adopted SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002 with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. Among other things, this statement rescinds SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt which required all gains and losses from extinguishment of debt to be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of related income tax effect. As a result, the criteria in APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, will now be used to classify those gains and losses. The Company adopted SFAS No. 145 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS No.146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. A fundamental conclusion reached by the FASB in this statement is that an entitys commitment to a plan, by itself, does not create a present obligation to others that meets the definition of a liability. The Company adopted SFAS No. 146 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. FIN No. 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued, and requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. A fundamental conclusion reached by the FASB in this interpretation is the exclusion from the liability recognition provisions of guarantees issued between entities under common control or parent or subsidiary guarantees of third party debt on behalf of that parent or subsidiary. Such guarantees, however, are not excluded from the enhanced disclosure provisions. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, however the disclosure provisions are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. As a result, the Company adopted the disclosure provisions of FIN No. 45 for its 2002 annual consolidated financial statements, which had no material impact. The Company also adopted the recognition and measurement provisions on January 1, 2003, which did not have a material impact upon its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. SFAS No.148 amends SFAS No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, this statement amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. SFAS No. 148 permits companies to continue to apply the intrinsic value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation as provided for in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, however it requires that companies that elect to do so, provide specific tabular pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123 in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. In addition, SFAS No. 148 requires these disclosures in financial reports for interim periods. The 65 Company continues to apply the intrinsic value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation as allowed by SFAS No. 148, and therefore adoption of this statement did not have a material impact upon its consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, the Company provided the required disclosures for the 2002 annual consolidated financial statements and will provide the required disclosures in consolidated financial statements provided prospectively on an interim basis. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Interest Rate Risk Our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with the Revolver, the Term Loan facility and the FF&E Facility, each of which bear interest based on floating rates at a specified premium over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). We will attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings. The amount of outstanding borrowings under the various debt instruments is expected to increase (i) as the proceeds of the initial public offering of our common stock are used in the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, (ii) the commencement of Macau development, and (iii) as the Macau financing evolves. The following table provides information about our long term indebtedness as of December 31, 2002 (see also Description of Certain Indebtedness): Maturity Date Face Amount Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value (in thousands) FF&E Facility, interest at LIBOR plus 4% (approximately 5.38% at December 31, 2002) October 2009 $ 38,000 $ 38,000 $ 36,480 Note payable land parcel; interest at 8.0% February 2009 291 291 291 12% Second Mortgage Notes November 2010 370,000 343,900 373,700 Total long term debt $ 408,291 $ 382,191 $ 410,471 Although we will be required to obtain interest rate protection through interest rate swaps, caps, collars or other arrangements with respect to 50% of the term loans (including any revolving loans that may be converted into term loans), we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 66 The following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates at December 31, 2002 of our expected long term indebtedness See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. However, we cannot predict the LIBOR rates that will be in effect in the future. Accordingly, the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2002 equal to 1.38% is used for all calculations in the table below. As of December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Fixed rate $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ 370.1 $ 370.3 Average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % 12.00 % 12.00 % Variable rate $ 20.1 $ 82.5 $ 96.0 $ 966.3 $ 1,164.9 Average interest rate 6.13 % 6.11 % 6.16 % 5.61 % 5.70 % Foreign Currency Risks The currency used in Wynn Macaus concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. Because Wynn Macaus payment and expenditure obligations under the concession agreement are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macaus obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenue for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Wynn Macau intends to spend any Macau patacas received on local casino operating expenses. Also, if any of our Macau related entities incur U.S. dollar denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macaus ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. We have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements in Part I, Item. 1. Overview In June 2000, the Company acquired the Desert Inn Resort & Casino (the Desert Inn) assets from Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and ceased operations of the Desert Inn after approximately ten weeks. The Company has demolished some of the buildings that constituted the Desert Inn in anticipation of the 52 construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. The remaining structures have been and will continue to be utilized as offices at least through the completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. Since the Company ceased operating the Desert Inn, our efforts have been devoted principally to the development activities described below with respect to Le R&ecirc;ve and Wynn Macaus opportunity in Macau. In addition, the financial position and operating results of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC which comprise principally the ownership and operation of a corporate aircraft, are included in the Companys financial statements. Moreover, we continue to operate an art gallery displaying works from The Wynn Collection, which consists of artwork from the personal art collection of Stephen A. and Elaine Wynn. Through June 2002, we also operated the golf course located on the site of the Desert Inn. At December 31, 2002, the Companys principal assets included the proceeds of the initial public offering of its common stock and its debt financing subject to various restrictions on the use of such proceeds, the Desert Inn site and equity interests in the Companys various subsidiaries, including a majority interest in Wynn Macau, a foreign subsidiary that has entered into a concession agreement with the government of Macau permitting it to conduct casino gaming operations in Macau. Development and Construction Activities Our activities have included arranging the design, construction and financing of Le R&ecirc;ve and applying for certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for the development and operation of Le R&ecirc;ve. We are constructing and plan to operate Le R&ecirc;ve as part of a world class destination casino resort which, together with the new golf course located behind the hotel, will occupy approximately 192 acres of a 212 acre parcel of land on the Las Vegas Strip in Las Vegas, Nevada. Construction of Le R&ecirc;ve began with groundbreaking in October 2002 and we expect Le R&ecirc;ve to commence operations in April 2005. The Company is subject to a number of uncertainties relating to the development of the Le R&ecirc;ve project, including, but not limited to, the timing of the construction, changes in the guaranteed maximum price contract due to delays or certain other issues and completion guarantees. Construction projects of this nature entail significant risks, and the anticipated costs and construction schedule are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and schedule estimates. As construction progresses, there is always a possibility that delays and construction change orders may occur. Such delays or change orders could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and operations. We have also spent considerable time preparing and presenting to the Macau government a proposal that ultimately resulted in obtaining a concession to engage in gaming activities in Macau. On June 24, 2002, Wynn Macau entered into a 20 year concession agreement with the government of Macau granting Wynn Macau the right to construct and operate one or more casinos in Macau. The concession agreement obligates Wynn Macau to invest no less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately US $515.6 million at the March 10, 2003 exchange rate) in Macau related projects by June 26, 2009 and to commence operations of its first permanent casino resort in Macau no later than December 2006. Wynn Macau has entered into a $574,000 pre construction services agreement with a third party joint venture for: (i) development of the Contractors Proposal, (ii) negotiation of the Contractors Proposal, and (iii) negotiation and execution of the construction contract. If Wynn Macau does not invest 4 billion patacas by June 26, 2009, it is obligated to invest the remaining amount in projects related to its gaming operations in Macau that the Macau government approves, or in projects of public interest designated by the Macau government. However, Wynn Macau will not begin construction or operation of any casino in Macau until a number of objectives and conditions are met, including: obtaining sufficient financing, obtaining the ability to extend credit to gaming customers and enforce gaming debts in Macau and obtaining relief from the complementary income tax and the withholding tax on dividends imposed in Macau. Based on our discussions with government officials, we believe legislative changes relating to these matters will be enacted in 2003. However, we cannot assure you that such proposed legislative changes will be enacted. As of December 31, 2002, Wynn Macau was majority owned by the Company through a series of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, none of which is a guarantor of, or otherwise restricted by, the Notes or the other debt facilities related to Le R&ecirc;ve. 53 Results of Operations As is customary for a development stage company, the Company has not commenced principal operations and therefore revenues are not significant. Consequently, the Company has incurred losses in each period from inception to December 31, 2002. Management expects these losses to continue until planned principal operations have commenced. The Company does not expect that its operating results prior to opening Le R&ecirc;ve will be indicative of operating results thereafter. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate Le R&ecirc;ve at a profit once it is completed. Results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the year ended December 31, 2001 The Companys development operations resulted in a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2002, of approximately $31.7 million, a 79% increase over the net loss of approximately $17.7 million for the comparable year ended December 31, 2001, due generally to increased development activities. Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002, were nearly consistent with the year ended December 31, 2001. The Company sold its original aircraft in February 2002 and purchased a new aircraft concurrent with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC. The new aircraft is not licensed for charter services; consequently, charter revenues, which now consist solely of fees charged for usage by officers of the Company, have decreased by $448,000 or 42% to $629,000 in 2002 from $1.1 million in 2001. Offsetting the decrease in aircraft revenues are increases in revenues from the art gallery and the retail shop, which were opened in November 2001. Total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased approximately $14.3 million, or 68%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001 primarily due to an approximately $13.3 million increase in pre opening costs, a loss from incidental operations of approximately $700,000, and approximately $771,000 of increased depreciation expense offset by the absence of facility closure expenses relating to the 2001 closure of the Desert Inn. The increase in pre opening costs, which consist primarily of salaries and wages and consulting and legal fees, is directly attributable to an increase in pre opening activities as compared to the same period in the prior year. Management expects pre opening costs to continue to increase as development of Le R&ecirc;ve progresses. Depreciation expenses increased primarily due to the addition of the new aircraft in May 2002, while incidental operations incurred a loss due to the closure of the golf course in summer 2002. Other income net for the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased approximately $513,000 from the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily as a result of an approximately $1.3 million increase in interest income from 2002 to 2001, offset by an approximately $1.9 million increase in interest expenses. Higher interest income is attributable mainly to the significant increase in cash from the net proceeds from equity and debt financing activity, while increased outstanding debt resulting from the aircraft purchase in May 2002 and subsequent refinancing from the FF&E Facility increased the interest expense. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 The Company recognized a loss of approximately $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, related to pre opening costs and depreciation of facilities acquired in the acquisition of the Desert Inn, an approximate increase of 67% from the loss incurred during the period from inception (April 21, 2000) to December 2000 of approximately $10.6 million. Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $1.1 million from the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased charter revenues from third parties recognized by Las Vegas Jet, LLC, which was previously wholly owned by Mr. Wynn, from approximately $715,000 for the year ended December 31, 2001. In addition, revenues of approximately $80,000 were 54 recognized for the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily as a result of the art gallery and retail shop opening in November 2001. Total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $9.1 million as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased pre opening costs associated with Le R&ecirc;ve and depreciation and amortization expenses which were partially offset by lower facility closure expense and losses from incidental operations. This resulted in an increase in net operating losses of approximately $8.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000. Pre opening costs, which consist primarily of salaries and wages and consulting and legal fees, for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately $6.2 million, as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of increased pre opening activities and approximately four additional months of costs being recognized during the year ended December 31, 2001 than in the period from inception to December 31, 2000. Similarly, depreciation and amortization recognized for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects 12 months of expenses as compared to approximately eight months of expenses recognized in the period from inception to December 31, 2000. This resulted in increased depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 of approximately $4.1 million. Facility closure expenses were approximately $833,000 less for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000, primarily because a majority of the costs incurred for the period from inception to December 31, 2000 related to the closing of the Desert Inn Resort & Casino, which was completed in August 2000. During the period from inception to December 31, 2000, the Company recognized a net loss from incidental operations of approximately $1.2 million as compared to no recognized net loss for the year ended December 31, 2001. The net loss in 2000 was attributable to the incidental casino and hotel operations incurred prior to its closing in August 2000. Other income net increased approximately $917,000 in the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to the period from inception to December 31, 2000 primarily as a result of an approximate $928,000 increase in interest income in 2001. Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects interest earned for the 12 month period whereas interest income for the period from inception to December 31, 2000 reflects interest earned for approximately eight months. Certain trends that may affect development activities and future results of operations In the near term, our development activities may be impacted by various economic factors, including, among other things, the availability and cost of materials, the availability of labor resources, interest rate levels and, specifically in connection with the Macau opportunity, foreign exchange rates. The strength and profitability of our business after Le R&ecirc;ve opens will depend on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities that Le R&ecirc;ve will offer. Adverse changes in consumer preferences or discretionary income could harm our business. In particular, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and ongoing terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, have had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. In addition to fears of war in the Mideast and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, could reduce customer demand for the products and services we will offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. Also, in his recent State of the State address on January 20, 2003, in response to the states budget deficit, the Governor of Nevada proposed significant increases in cigarette and alcohol taxes, corporate filing fees and slot machine license fees and also proposed a new gross receipts tax which would levy an additional % tax on gross receipts of Nevada businesses. Although we cannot currently predict the likelihood of the implementation of such proposals, the imposition of additional taxes and license fees and a state gross receipts tax would, if enacted, significantly increase our tax liabilities and reduce our cash flows and net income accordingly. 55 Upon opening Le R&ecirc;ve we believe that a nominal decline in the strength of the U.S. economy or the amount of disposable income available to individuals would not have a material effect on our results of operations, however, a material decline in the strength of the U.S. economy or the amount of disposable income available to individuals could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Material Transactions Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Since Valvinos (Wynn Resorts predecessor) inception on April 21, 2000, there have been a number of transactions that have had a significant impact on the Companys liquidity. Our operations have required substantial capital investment for the acquisition of the land on which Le R&ecirc;ve will be located and development of Le R&ecirc;ve. Capital Contributions and Distributions Stephen A. Wynn organized Valvino and initially was its sole member. Between April of 2000 and September of 2000, Mr. Wynn made equity contributions to Valvino in an aggregate amount of approximately $220.7 million. On June 15, 2000, Mr. Wynn loaned Valvino $100 million at an interest rate of 7.875% per year. In July 2000, Valvino used proceeds from a $125 million loan agreement with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as lead arranger, and Bankers Trust Company, as administrative agent, to make an approximately $110.5 million equity distribution to Mr. Wynn. At the time of this distribution, Mr. Wynn was the only member of Valvino. On October 3, 2000, Aruze USA made a contribution of $260 million in cash ($250 million net of finders fee) to Valvino in exchange for 50% of the membership interests in Valvino and was admitted as a member of Valvino. Mr. Wynn was designated as the managing member of Valvino. On October 3, 2000, $70 million of Mr. Wynns loan was repaid out of the proceeds of this capital contribution and on October 10, 2000, the Deutsche Bank loan discussed above was repaid in full. The remaining approximately $32.3 million balance of Mr. Wynns loan, including accrued interest, was converted to equity as a member contribution. On April 16, 2001, Baron Asset Fund, a Massachusetts business trust, made a contribution of $20.8 million in cash ($20 million net of finders fees) to Valvino in exchange for approximately 3.7% of the membership interests in Valvino and was admitted as a member of Valvino. Immediately following the admission of Baron Asset Fund, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA each owned approximately 48.2% of the membership interests in Valvino. In April 2002, Mr. Wynn, Aruze USA and Baron Asset Fund each made the following further capital contributions to Valvino: Mr. Wynn contributed approximately $32 million in cash plus his 90% interest in Wynn Macau, which in June 2002 entered into a concession agreement with the government of Macau permitting it to construct and operate one or more casinos in Macau. The $32 million contribution was comprised of approximately $22.5 million of cash deposited in a Macau bank account which Mr. Wynn assigned to Valvino, Mr. Wynns right to be reimbursed for approximately $825,000 advanced to Wynn Macau and an additional $8.6 million in cash. Mr. Wynns 90% interest in Wynn Macau, the principal asset of which was a provisional license to negotiate a concession agreement with the Macau government, had no historical cost basis. This interest was valued at approximately $56 million by the parties to the negotiation of Mr. Wynns contribution of his interest. For financial statement purposes, as a combination of entities under common control, the contribution of Mr. Wynns 90% interest in Wynn Macau was recorded at carryover basis (with the primary asset recorded in the financial statements being the approximate $22.5 million of cash) rather than fair value. However, Mr. Wynns 56 resulting 47.5% ownership interest in Valvino, after these contributions, reflects the fair value of his investment in Wynn Macau relative to the fair value of the contributions from Aruze USA and Baron Asset Fund; Aruze USA contributed an additional $120 million in cash; and Baron Asset Fund contributed an additional approximately $20.3 million in cash. Immediately following these additional capital contributions, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA each owned 47.5% of the membership interests and Baron Asset Fund owned 5% of the membership interests in Valvino. The percentage of membership interests held by Baron Asset Fund were held by it on behalf of two series of Baron Asset Funds: (1) approximately 3.6% of the membership interests in Valvino for the Baron Asset Fund Series, and (2) approximately 1.4% of the membership interests in Valvino for the Baron Growth Fund Series. Neither Mr. Wynn nor Aruze USA increased their relative ownership interests as a result of the April 2002 capital contributions. On June 24, 2002, the Kenneth R. Wynn Family Trust contributed $1.2 million in cash to Valvino in exchange for 0.146% of the outstanding membership interests in Valvino. On September 24, 2002, all the members of Valvino contributed 100% of the membership interests in Valvino to the Company in a tax free exchange for 40,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock, making Valvino and its subsidiaries a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Acquisitions On June 22, 2000, Valvino acquired the Desert Inn from Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., including the Desert Inn golf course and some, but not all, of the residential lots located in the interior of and around the golf course, for approximately $270 million in cash. In connection with that transaction, Valvino and its subsidiaries also acquired approximately 985 acre feet of certificated water rights. In addition to acquiring the assets of the Desert Inn, Valvino assumed most of its liabilities, and, to the extent assignable, all of its contracts. Valvino later acquired all of the remaining lots located in the interior of, and some of the remaining lots around, the golf course for a total of $47.8 million, bringing the size of the parcel to approximately 212 acres. On August 28, 2000, Valvino closed the Desert Inn and, in June of 2002, Valvino closed the golf course at the site. Since then, Valvino has been engaged primarily in the development of Le R&ecirc;ve. On April 1, 2001, the Company acquired Kevyn, LLC, a previously unconsolidated affiliate which was wholly owned by Mr. Wynn and whose principal asset was an airplane, for approximately $10 million. The acquisition was treated as a reorganization of entities under common control. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations, the assets and liabilities acquired have been recorded at the carrying value at the time of the acquisition and the operating results of Kevyn, LLC are included in the operating statements of the Company from the earliest period presented. As a result, the previously separate historical financial position and results of operations of Kevyn, LLC are combined with the financial position and results of operations of the Company for all periods presented. Additionally, effective June 28, 2001, the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada approved the transfer of ownership of Desert Inn Water Company, also a previously unconsolidated affiliate and wholly owned company of Mr. Wynn, to the Company. As the Desert Inn Water Company consisted entirely of all of the shares of Desert Inn Improvement Company whose assets primarily consisted of water rights, this transaction was treated as an acquisition of assets for financial reporting purposes. The Company exchanged the receivable from the Desert Inn Water Company in this acquisition, which was equivalent to the fair market value of the water rights of $6.4 million. In May 2002, the Company acquired World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC (entities previously wholly owned by Mr. Wynn). The acquisitions were accounted for as reorganizations of entities under common 57 control. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of these entities have been recorded at the carrying value at the time of the acquisition and the operating results of the entities are included in the operating statements of the Company from the earliest period presented. As a result, the previously separate historical financial position and results of operations of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC are combined with the financial position and results of operations of the Company for all periods presented. Financings On October 25, 2002, Wynn Resorts completed the initial public offering of 34,615,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $13 per share. The common stock trades on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol WYNN. Stephen A. Wynn, Chairman of the Board, CEO and a principal stockholder of Wynn Resorts, and Aruze USA, another principal stockholder of Wynn Resorts, collectively purchased approximately 11,150,000 of these shares directly from the Company at the $13 per share price. Total proceeds of approximately $450 million were reduced by underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million and legal and professional expenses directly incurred with respect to the offering of approximately $4.1 million for net proceeds to the Company of approximately $426.4 million, which will be used to finance construction of Le R&ecirc;ve and provide $40 million for the additional intended investment in Macau. Concurrent with the initial public offering, two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company (Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Capital) issued $370 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas entered into the Revolver, the Term Loan and the FF&E Facility for additional construction and furniture, fixtures and equipment financing for Le R&ecirc;ve. See Description of Certain Indebtedness below for additional information. The Notes were issued for proceeds of approximately $343.3 million net of an original issue discount of approximately $26.7 million. The proceeds were further reduced by approximately $10.1 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and approximately $4.3 million of legal and professional expenses, all of which are capitalized and amortized over the term of the Notes using the effective interest method. Net proceeds were approximately $328.9 million and will be used to finance the development and construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, to pay pre opening expenses and meet debt service obligations. In addition to the offering costs associated with the initial public offering of the Companys common stock and the issuance of the Notes, approximately $47.3 million of legal and professional expenses were incurred in connection with the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. These expenses are capitalized and amortized over the terms of the respective facilities. Wynn Resorts has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment in full of the Credit Facilities, the FF&E Facility and the Notes on an unsecured basis, but is not directly subject to the restrictive covenants in its subsidiaries debt facilities. However, if Wynn Resorts grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness, it will be required to secure the guarantees of the Credit Facilities and the Notes on a pari passu basis. Wynn Resorts domestic and foreign subsidiaries related to the Macau opportunity are not guarantors or restricted entities and will not be subject to the covenants in the Notes or the Credit Facilities. In addition, a $30.0 million liquidity reserve account has been established and a special purpose subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas has been capitalized with $50 million of the equity proceeds and provides a completion guarantee in favor of the lenders under the Credit Facilities and the Notes to secure completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. After completion of Le R&ecirc;ve, any remaining amounts will be released to the Company. On November 11, 2002 the underwriters to the initial public offering exercised a 3,219,173 share over allotment option in full, resulting in additional net proceeds of approximately $38.9 million, net of the underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $2.9 million. In connection with the acquisitions of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC, the Company partially financed the purchase of a private jet aircraft for $38.0 million with the issuance of a note payable for 58 $28.5 million collateralized by the aircraft. In November 2002, the Company withdrew $38.0 million against the FF&E Facility to repay the note payable secured by the aircraft acquired in connection with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC. The unused portion of the draw will be used for construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. Expected Capital Resources and Commercial Commitments At December 31, 2002, the Company had approximately $109.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. In addition, the Company had approximately $792.9 million in restricted cash and investments from the proceeds of the debt and equity financings discussed above and restricted in accordance with the Disbursement Agreement described below, including the $80.0 million restricted for the liquidity reserve account and the completion guarantee as also discussed below. The restricted cash and investments also includes approximately $2.5 million in cash restricted to collateralize certain construction insurance claims and sales tax deposits. Cash equivalents are comprised of investments in overnight money market funds. Restricted investments are kept in money market funds or relatively short term, government backed marketable debt securities as required by the Disbursement Agreement. As of December 31, 2002, approximately $577.0 million of the total Le R&ecirc;ve project cost of approximately $2.4 billion (including the cost of the land, capitalized interest, pre opening expenses and all financing fees) had been expended or incurred to fund the development, and begin construction, of Le R&ecirc;ve. The remaining development and construction costs for Le R&ecirc;ve are expected to be funded from a combination of our cash on hand from contributed capital and a majority of the net proceeds of the initial public offering of the Companys common stock and the Notes, and additional borrowings under the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our expected long term indebtedness and material commercial commitments based upon our best estimate at December 31, 2002 of our expected long term indebtedness and commercial commitments (amounts in millions): Payments Due By Period Long Term Indebtedness Total Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Revolving credit facility(1) $ 726.4 $ $ $ $ 726.4 Delay draw term loan facility(2) 250.0 10.0 90.0 150.0 FF&E facility(3) 188.5 10.1 88.5 89.9 Second mortgage notes 370.0 370.0 Other long term obligations(4) 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total long term indebtedness $ 1,535.2 $ $ 20.2 $ 178.6 $ 1,336.4 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Other Commercial Commitments Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Construction contracts(5) $ 979.4 $ 416.7 $ 562.7 $ $ Macau concession agreement(6) 515.6 515.6 Employment agreements(7) 42.4 10.0 20.2 12.2 Other commercial commitments(8) 2.9 2.9 Total commercial commitments $ 1,540.3 $ 429.6 $ 582.9 $ 12.2 $ 515.6 (1) As of December 31, 2002, we have not borrowed any amounts under the Revolver, however, we anticipate that drawing approximately $726.4 million to fund the design, construction, development, equipping and opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, assuming that Le R&ecirc;ve is completed on schedule. An additional $23.6 million is available under the Revolver, subject to certain limitations. Once the total extensions of credit under the Revolver equal or exceed $200 million, lead arrangers holding a majority of the commitments of the lead 59 arrangers under that facility will have the right to convert between $100 million and $400 million of the outstanding revolving loans into term loans on the same terms and conditions as the term loans under the delay draw term loan facility or on such other terms as we and the administrative agent and syndication agent can agree. In addition, the Revolver will provide for a cash flow sweep each year that will reduce the commitment under that facility by the amount of the cash swept. (2) As of December 31, 2002, we have not borrowed any amounts under the Term Loan, however we anticipate drawing the entire available balance in the future for additional funding of the construction and development of Le R&ecirc;ve. Term Loans will be repayable in quarterly installments from the first full fiscal quarter after completion of Le R&ecirc;ve until the seventh anniversary of the closing in amounts to be determined in accordance with the terms of the Credit Facilities. (3) As of December 31, 2002, we have borrowed approximately $38.0 million under the FF&E Facility. Approximately $28.5 million of these borrowings were used to refinance a loan, secured by a mortgage on World Travels Bombardier Global Express aircraft, made by Bank of America, N.A. to World Travel, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas. The remaining $9.5 million of currently borrowed funds and the unused portion of the $188.5 million facility is expected to provide funds for furniture, fixtures and equipment to be used at Le R&ecirc;ve. (4) Represents the amount owing pursuant to an annuity issued by ITT Sheraton in connection with the acquisition of a parcel of land in 1994. The annuity bears interest at an annual rate of 8% and requires payment of $5,000 per month until February 2009. The Company assumed the obligations under the annuity in connection with its acquisition of the Desert Inn. (5) Represents obligations under our signed construction contracts with Marnell Corrao and Bomel Construction Company, Inc. We expect to sign additional contracts for the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. We expect to satisfy some of the payment obligations under these contracts using amounts borrowed under the long term indebtedness shown above. (6) The Macau concession agreement requires Wynn Macau to invest 4 billion Patacas (approximately $515.6 million) on one or more casino projects over a seven year period. Wynn Macau is obligated to operate its first casino in Macau by December 2006. The full contractual commitment is shown as having to be made after five years, but the timing of the expenditures is subject to change. In addition, contractual obligations are stated in Macau Patacas and therefore the amount of commitment as expressed in US dollars may be subject to increases depending on fluctuations in the foreign rate of exchange. (7) We have entered into employment agreements with several executive officers, other members of management, and certain key employees. These agreements generally have three to five year terms, typically indicate a base salary with specified annual increases, and often contain provisions for guaranteed bonuses. If we terminate certain executives without cause or if certain executives terminate employment with us for good reason following a change of control (as these terms are defined in the employment contracts), we will pay the executive a separation payment in a lump sum, which typically is equal to the base salary of the remaining term of the employment contract plus foregone bonuses, plus certain other payments. (8) Includes a standby letter of credit for our owner controlled insurance program and a $574,000 Macau pre construction services agreement. Description of Certain Indebtedness The following discussion summarizes the material terms of certain material debt agreements to which certain of our subsidiaries will be parties. However, this summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the relevant agreements described herein. References to the restricted entities or to the Guarantors mean Valvino; Wynn Resorts Holdings; Wynn Design & Development, LLC; World Travel, LLC; Las Vegas Jet, LLC; Desert Inn Water Company, LLC and Palo, LLC and references to the Issuers mean Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Capital. 60 Second Mortgage Notes On October 30, 2002, the Issuers, issued the Notes maturing November 1, 2010 with semi annual interest payments beginning in May 2003. The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed by Wynn Resorts, Limited as the parent company and certain other subsidiary guarantors, are secured by a first priority security interest in the net proceeds of the offering and a second priority security interest in substantially all the assets of the Issuers and certain restricted subsidiaries, and rank senior in right of payment to all of the Issuers existing and future subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the Notes contain certain affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Issuers and the restricted entities, including limitations on additional indebtedness, declaration and payment of dividends (see Part I, Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters; Dividends), issuance of preferred stock and equity interests of wholly owned subsidiaries, certain payments or investments, golf course and Phase II land development, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, sale leaseback transactions, and various other restrictions as defined in the Indenture. While Wynn Resorts is not subject to a majority of the restrictive covenants in the Indenture, pursuant to the terms of its parent guaranty, if it grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness it will be required to grant pari passu liens on the same assets to secure its parent guaranty of the Notes. As of December 31, 2002, the Company is in compliance with all such covenants. Other than mandatory redemption required by gaming authorities resulting from unsuitable persons, the Issuers will not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments. However, if a change of control occurs, the holders of the Notes may require the Issuers to repurchase all or part of the Notes at 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest. In addition, after November 1, 2006, the Issuers may elect to redeem all or part of the Notes at the redemption prices below, plus accrued interest on the redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve month period beginning on November 1 of the years below: Year Percentage 2006 112 % 2007 108 % 2008 104 % 2009 and thereafter 100 % Credit Facilities Effective October 30, 2002, Wynn Las Vegas entered into the Credit Facilities for additional construction financing for Le R&ecirc;ve. The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by Wynn Resorts as the parent company, Valvino and its subsidiaries, and certain of Valvinos affiliates. While Wynn Resorts is not subject to a majority of the restrictive covenants in the Credit Facilities, pursuant to the terms of its parent guaranty, if it grants specified liens to secure other guarantees or indebtedness it will be required to grant pari passu liens on the same assets to secure its parent guaranty of the Credit Facilities. The Credit Facilities are also secured by a first priority security interest in a $30.0 million liquidity reserve account as further described below, a first priority pledge of all equity interests in, and a first priority security interest in substantially all the assets of, Wynn Las Vegas, Wynn Capital and the restricted entities, first mortgages on all real property constituting Le R&ecirc;ve, and a second priority security interest on the furniture, fixtures and equipment securing the FF&E Facility described below. The Revolver and the Term Loan mature in October 2008 and October 2009, respectively. Prior to the opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, annual interest is charged on outstanding borrowings at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 4% on the Revolver and LIBOR plus 5.5% on the Term Loan. Subsequent to the opening of Le R&ecirc;ve, the rates will be adjusted based upon a leverage ratio. In addition, the Revolver will require quarterly payments on the unused available borrowings at an annual rate of 2%, while the Term Loan will require quarterly payments at an annual rate of 2.5% through December 31, 2002, 3% from January 1, 2003 to June 30, 2003 and 4% thereafter. Wynn Las Vegas will be required to obtain interest rate protection through interest rate swaps, caps or other similar arrangements against increases in the interest rates with respect to not less than $125 million of Term Loan availability, and up to $200 million of Revolver loans that are converted to Term Loans. 61 When borrowings outstanding under the Revolver equal or exceed $200 million, lead arrangers holding a majority of the commitments will have the right to convert $100 million to $400 million of the amounts outstanding to term loans with the same terms and conditions as those made under Term Loan facility. The Term Loan provides for draws of funds under one or more term loans no more frequently than once per month for 27 months after the closing. Once repaid, term loans may not be reborrowed. The Issuers and Guarantors are required to comply with several affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on additional indebtedness, guarantees, dividends, transactions with affiliates, capital expenditures, asset sales and others. There are also several financial covenants including the maintenance of a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), total debt to EBITDA and net worth. As of December 31, 2002, the Company is in compliance with all such covenants. FF&E Facility Effective October 30, 2002, Wynn Las Vegas entered the FF&E Facility to provide financing and refinancing for furniture, fixtures and equipment to be used at Le R&ecirc;ve. The proceeds from the FF&E Facility may also be used to refinance a replacement corporate aircraft, in which case, Wynn Las Vegas would request the FF&E lenders to increase the total commitment under the FF&E Facility by $10 million to $198.5 million. In connection with the acquisitions of World Travel, LLC and Las Vegas Jet, LLC, the Company partially financed the purchase of a private jet aircraft for $38.0 million with the issuance of a note payable for $28.5 million collateralized by the aircraft. In November 2002, the Company withdrew $38.0 million against the FF&E Facility to repay the note payable secured by the aircraft acquired in connection with the acquisition of World Travel, LLC. The unused portion of the draw will be used for construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. The FF&E Facility is guaranteed by the same guarantors as the Credit Facilities, on a senior unsecured basis, matures in October 2009, and has substantially the same interest rates and elections as the Revolver discussed above. Disbursement Agreement The Company has entered into an agreement (the Disbursement Agreement) with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as the bank agent and disbursement agent, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as the second mortgage note trustee, and Wells Fargo Bank Nevada, National Association as the FF&E agent, which sets forth the Companys material obligations to construct and complete Le R&ecirc;ve, establishes a line item budget and schedule for its construction and establishes the conditions to, and the relative sequencing of, the making of disbursements from the proceeds of the Notes, the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. The Disbursement Agreement restricts the Companys use of the proceeds of the Notes, the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility to only project costs related to Le R&ecirc;ve and, subject to certain limitations, corporate overhead and related costs. In order to facilitate the funding of disbursements in accordance with the Disbursement Agreement, the Company established certain accounts including, but not limited to, the Completion Guarantee Deposit Account and the Liquidity Reserve Account discussed in further detail below, which are pledged to the lenders under the Credit Facilities and, with respect to the secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the holders of the Notes. Prior to borrowing any amounts under the Credit Facilities or the FF&E Facility or receiving any disbursements from the secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the Company is required to use a substantial portion of the equity offering proceeds and other available funds to commence construction of Le R&ecirc;ve. At that point the proceeds of the Notes, other than amounts sufficient to pay interest, will be used; followed thereafter by the proceeds of the Credit Facilities and the FF&E Facility. However, as a condition to borrowing amounts under the Credit Facilities or the FF&E Facility or receiving any disbursements from the 62 secured account holding the proceeds of the Notes, the Company is required to submit evidence acceptable to the third party construction consultant that construction of Le R&ecirc;ve has been completed at the time of such borrowing in accordance with the plans and specifications, on budget and on schedule. Completion Guarantee and Liquidity Reserve The Company contributed $50 million of the net proceeds of the equity offering to Wynn Completion Guarantor, LLC, a special purpose subsidiary of Wynn Las Vegas formed in October 2002 to provide a completion guarantee in favor of the lenders under the Credit Facilities and the Notes to secure completion of Le R&ecirc;ve. The funds were deposited into a required escrow Completion Guarantee Deposit Account. These funds will gradually be available to apply to the cost of the project, commencing after 50% of the construction work has been completed. After completion of Le R&ecirc;ve, any remaining amounts will be released to the Company. In addition, the Company deposited $30.0 million from the net proceeds of the equity offering into a required escrow Liquidity Reserve Account to secure the completion and opening of Le R&ecirc;ve. The lenders under the Credit Facilities have a first priority security interest and the holders of the Notes have a perfected second priority security interest in these funds. These funds will gradually be available to apply to the cost of the project, commencing after 50% of the construction work has been completed. Any amounts remaining upon completion will be used for debt service under the Credit Facilities and the Notes, and if consolidated EBITDA levels permit, to reduce the Revolver. Financing for the Macau Opportunity We intend to invest at least $40 million of the net proceeds from the initial public offering in Wynn Macau as part of the financing of the Macau opportunity. The indirect minority investors in Wynn Macau have agreed to participate in this additional investment along with Wynn Resorts to the extent of their proportionate effective interests in Wynn Macau (17.5% in the aggregate). It is expected that significant additional financing will be needed to fund the development, construction and operation of one or more casinos in Macau. Wynn Macau has entered into a $574,000 pre construction services agreement with a third party joint venture for: (i) development of the Contractors Proposal, (ii) negotiation of the Contractors Proposal, and (iii) negotiation and execution of the construction contract. Wynn Macau has also begun preliminary discussions to arrange the additional financing, and is considering different alternatives, including debt financing or additional equity financing at the Wynn Macau level or at the level of Wynn Macaus intermediary holding companies. At the present time, Wynn Macau has not yet determined the amount of financing that will be required to complete its first casino resort. If Wynn Resorts decides to raise additional equity at the Wynn Resorts level or at the Wynn Macau or intermediary holding company level to fund the Macau opportunity, its stockholders would suffer direct or indirect dilution of their interests. Wynn Macau currently has no commitments relating to any third party financing. Except for Wynn Resorts, we do not expect financing for any such project to be provided by or through any of the issuers or guarantors of the Notes or any other indebtedness relating to the Le R&ecirc;ve project. After construction of Wynn Macaus first casino resort, Wynn Macau intends to satisfy its remaining financial obligations, if any, under the concession agreement through the development of future phased expansions and, possibly, additional casino resorts. Other Liquidity Matters New business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. For example, we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in Las Vegas or other domestic or international markets such as Illinois, whether through acquisition, investment or development. Any such development would require us to obtain additional financing. We may also decide to conduct any such development through Wynn Resorts or through a line of subsidiaries separate from the Le R&ecirc;ve entities. In addition, Wynn Resorts articles of incorporation provide that Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to 63 the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects. Any promissory note that Wynn Resorts issues to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares may increase our debt to equity ratio and will increase our leverage ratio. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements of the Company were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Certain of our accounting policies, including the estimated lives of our depreciable assets, our annual evaluation of assets for impairment and the purchase price allocations made in connection with acquisitions, require that management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. Judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. As of, and for the period from inception to December 31, 2002, management does not believe there are any highly uncertain matters or other underlying assumptions that would have a material effect on the statement of financial position or results of operations of the Company if actual results differ from our estimates. Critical accounting policies currently reflected in the consolidated financial statements primarily relate to expensing pre opening costs as incurred, capitalizing construction costs, including portions of interest attributable to certain qualifying assets, and other policies related to our development stage status. During the period of the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, direct costs such as those expected to be incurred for the design and construction of the hotel and casino, the championship golf course and the water based entertainment production, including interest, are capitalized. Accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment will increase significantly. Depreciation expense related to the capitalized construction costs will not be recognized until the related assets are put in service. Accordingly, upon completion of construction and commencement of operation of Le R&ecirc;ve, depreciation expense recognized based on the estimated useful life of the corresponding asset will have a significant effect on the results of our operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 prohibits the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142, which is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2002, requires, among other things, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. In addition, the standard includes provisions for the reclassification of certain existing intangibles as goodwill, reassessment of the useful lives of existing intangibles and ongoing assessments of potential impairment of existing goodwill. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had no goodwill but did have intangible assets consisting of a trademark and water rights with indefinite useful lives. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement on January 1, 2002 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain obligations of lessees. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived 64 assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. The provisions of this Statement are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company adopted SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002 with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. Among other things, this statement rescinds SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt which required all gains and losses from extinguishment of debt to be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of related income tax effect. As a result, the criteria in APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, will now be used to classify those gains and losses. The Company adopted SFAS No. 145 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS No.146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. A fundamental conclusion reached by the FASB in this statement is that an entitys commitment to a plan, by itself, does not create a present obligation to others that meets the definition of a liability. The Company adopted SFAS No. 146 on January 1, 2003, with no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. FIN No. 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued, and requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. A fundamental conclusion reached by the FASB in this interpretation is the exclusion from the liability recognition provisions of guarantees issued between entities under common control or parent or subsidiary guarantees of third party debt on behalf of that parent or subsidiary. Such guarantees, however, are not excluded from the enhanced disclosure provisions. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, however the disclosure provisions are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. As a result, the Company adopted the disclosure provisions of FIN No. 45 for its 2002 annual consolidated financial statements, which had no material impact. The Company also adopted the recognition and measurement provisions on January 1, 2003, which did not have a material impact upon its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. SFAS No.148 amends SFAS No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, this statement amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. SFAS No. 148 permits companies to continue to apply the intrinsic value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation as provided for in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, however it requires that companies that elect to do so, provide specific tabular pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123 in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. In addition, SFAS No. 148 requires these disclosures in financial reports for interim periods. The 65 Company continues to apply the intrinsic value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation as allowed by SFAS No. 148, and therefore adoption of this statement did not have a material impact upon its consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, the Company provided the required disclosures for the 2002 annual consolidated financial statements and will provide the required disclosures in consolidated financial statements provided prospectively on an interim basis. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Interest Rate Risk Our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with the Revolver, the Term Loan facility and the FF&E Facility, each of which bear interest based on floating rates at a specified premium over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). We will attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings. The amount of outstanding borrowings under the various debt instruments is expected to increase (i) as the proceeds of the initial public offering of our common stock are used in the construction of Le R&ecirc;ve, (ii) the commencement of Macau development, and (iii) as the Macau financing evolves. The following table provides information about our long term indebtedness as of December 31, 2002 (see also Description of Certain Indebtedness): Maturity Date Face Amount Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value (in thousands) FF&E Facility, interest at LIBOR plus 4% (approximately 5.38% at December 31, 2002) October 2009 $ 38,000 $ 38,000 $ 36,480 Note payable land parcel; interest at 8.0% February 2009 291 291 291 12% Second Mortgage Notes November 2010 370,000 343,900 373,700 Total long term debt $ 408,291 $ 382,191 $ 410,471 Although we will be required to obtain interest rate protection through interest rate swaps, caps, collars or other arrangements with respect to 50% of the term loans (including any revolving loans that may be converted into term loans), we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 66 The following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates at December 31, 2002 of our expected long term indebtedness See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. However, we cannot predict the LIBOR rates that will be in effect in the future. Accordingly, the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2002 equal to 1.38% is used for all calculations in the table below. As of December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Fixed rate $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ 370.1 $ 370.3 Average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % 12.00 % 12.00 % Variable rate $ 20.1 $ 82.5 $ 96.0 $ 966.3 $ 1,164.9 Average interest rate 6.13 % 6.11 % 6.16 % 5.61 % 5.70 % Foreign Currency Risks The currency used in Wynn Macaus concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. Because Wynn Macaus payment and expenditure obligations under the concession agreement are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macaus obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenue for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Wynn Macau intends to spend any Macau patacas received on local casino operating expenses. Also, if any of our Macau related entities incur U.S. dollar denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macaus ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. We have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk. 
 
