FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20061121091718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of the earliest event reported) November 17, 2006 Titanium Metals Corporation (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-14368 13-5630895 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification incorporation) No.) 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700, Dallas, Texas 75240-2697 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (972) 233-1700 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into Material Definitive Agreement On November 17, 2006, Titanium Metals Corporation ("TIMET") entered into a Conversion Services Agreement (the "Conversion Agreement") with Haynes International, Inc. ("Haynes"). Under the Conversion Agreement, Haynes will process titanium metal for TIMET into a variety of flat products, including plate and sheet (the "Titanium Conversion Services"), on Haynes' 4-High Steckel Rolling mill located at Haynes' facilities in Kokomo, Indiana. Pursuant to the agreement (and the related Access and Security Agreement discussed below), TIMET paid $50 million to Haynes in exchange for Haynes' commitment to provide capacity to TIMET to process up to 10 million pounds of titanium per year for the twenty-year term of the agreement. The fee is earned by Haynes during the term of the Conversion Agreement in equal annual installments on the first 20 anniversaries of the date thereof. The earned portion of the fee is nonrefundable to TIMET. The Conversion Agreement also provides TIMET an option to increase the annual volume to 20 million pounds per year, subject to TIMET's providing Haynes with certain financing to fund capital expenditures required to achieve the increased volumes. In addition to the up-front fee, TIMET will pay Haynes for its processing services during the term of the agreement and will sell certain quantities of titanium metal to Haynes. On November 17, 2006, TIMET also entered into an Access and Security Agreement (the "Access Agreement") with Haynes. Pursuant to the Access Agreement, as security for the $50 million fee paid by TIMET to Haynes and other obligations of Haynes under the Conversion Agreement and the Access Agreement, Haynes granted to TIMET a first priority security interest in certain assets of Haynes used to provide the Titanium Conversion Services (the "Operating Assets"). The Access Agreement also provides that upon the occurrence of specified events relating to a bankruptcy of or default under debt obligations by Haynes, TIMET has the right to use and occupy the Operating Assets to perform the Titanium Conversion Services. The Conversion Agreement and the Access Agreement will each be filed as an exhibit to TIMET's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006, and portions of each of the Conversion Agreement and the Access Agreement will be omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The foregoing summary of the Conversion Agreement and the Access Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to all of the terms of the Conversion Agreement and the Access Agreement. Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. TIMET hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on November 20, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The information, including the exhibit, TIMET furnishes under this item is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate the information under this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Item No. Exhibit Index ---------- ---------------------------------------- 99.1 Press Release dated November 20, 2006 issued by TIMET.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Titanium Metals Corporation (Registrant) By: /s/ Bobby D. O'Brien ------------------------- Bobby D. O'Brien Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: November 21, 2006
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description - ----------- -------------------------------------------------- 99.1 Press Release dated November 20, 2006 issued by the registrant.

[LOGO GOES HERE] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PRESS RELEASE - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: CONTACT: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- John A. St. Wrba TITANIUM METALS CORPORATION Vice President and Treasurer Three Lincoln Centre (972) 233-1700 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700 Dallas, Texas 75240-2697 (972) 233-1700 Haynes and TIMET Announce Long-Term Conversion Agreement for Flat Products Kokomo, Indiana and Dallas, Texas, November 20, 2006 -- Haynes International, Inc. ("Haynes") (OTC: HYNI.PK) and Titanium Metals Corporation ("TIMET") (NYSE: TIE) today announced that the companies have entered into a long term agreement under which Haynes will process titanium metal for TIMET into a variety of flat products, including plate and sheet, on Haynes' 4-High Steckel Rolling mill located at Haynes' facilities in Kokomo, Indiana. Under the agreement, TIMET agreed to pay $50 million to Haynes in exchange for Haynes' commitment to provide capacity to TIMET to process up to 10 million pounds of titanium per year on Haynes' 4-High Steckel Rolling mill for a period of 20 years with an option to increase the annual volume to 20 million pounds per year, subject to TIMET's agreement to provide financing necessary to fund capital expenditures necessary to achieve such increased process volumes. In addition to the up-front fee, TIMET will pay Haynes for its processing services during the term of the agreement and will sell certain quantities of titanium metal to Haynes. Haynes' 4-High Steckel Rolling mill is well suited for rolling of titanium flat products and is capable of rolling plate and sheet up to 72" wide. An integrated computer control system supports the 4-High Steckel Mill and five re-heat furnaces. Steven L. Watson, TIMET's Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "This agreement is the culmination of several years of cooperative effort between the operating management teams of TIMET and Haynes in developing procedures and qualifications for processing titanium flat products utilizing Haynes' 4-High Steckel Rolling mill capabilities. This agreement provides TIMET with a long-term secure source for processing these types of products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities which will allow us to in turn provide certainty to our customers of our long-term ability to meet their needs. It also enhances utilization of existing process capacity, which allows both companies to deploy their capital resources in a more efficient manner. We look forward to a long-term mutually beneficial relationship with Haynes in this agreement and will continue to explore similar opportunities in other manufacturing processes." Francis Petro, President and Chief Executive Officer of Haynes, said, "We are very pleased to enter into this agreement with TIMET. This agreement enables Haynes to monetize a portion of our excess mill capacity, while providing TIMET with the benefit of our considerable expertise and experience in rolling flat products. We look forward to working with TIMET under these new long-term arrangements. With the conclusion of this transaction we will now turn our attention to other aspects of our plans to enhance shareholder value, including a review of our existing capital structure and pursuit of a full listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market." The statements in this release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that represent management's beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information and involve risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry, future global economic conditions, global productive capacity, competitive products and other risks and uncertainties included in TIMET's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products. Information on TIMET is available on its website at www.timet.com. Haynes International, Inc. is a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of technologically advanced, high performance alloys, primarily for use in the aerospace and chemical processing industries. Information on Haynes is available on its website at www.haynesintl.com.


