FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20071113082257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on November 12, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information, including the exhibit, the registrant furnishes in this report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . November 12, 2007 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation () (NYSE:  TIE) announced today that its board of directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of TIMET common stock in open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions.
TIMET
The stock repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables and may be suspended or terminated at any time prior to completion.  TIMET intends to use excess free cash flow to acquire the shares.  Repurchased shares will be added to TIMETs treasury and canceled.
Steven L. Watson, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer said, TIMET has continued to focus on expansion of its productive capacity in response to the favorable long term outlook for demand in the industry.  In several areas we have had success in providing for significant future growth and expansion of our productive capacity, without the need for major investment or upfront capital expenditures.  As a result of this success, we believe we can continue our efforts to add to our productive capacity and retain significant liquidity for other purposes, including the acquisition of our shares at attractive prices.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at www.timet.com.


