FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20071019141330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
(c)           Effective October 15, 2007, the board of directors of the registrant approved the following promotions:
Messrs. OBrien and Brown are employees of Contran Corporation, a privately held parent corporation of the registrant (), and provide their services to the registrant under an intercorporate services agreement with the registrant.  For a description of the intercorporate services agreement, see Certain Relationships and Transactions in the registrants 2007 Proxy Statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 20, 2007, which description is incorporated herein by reference.  In addition, for a discussion of potential conflicts of interest of officers who serve more than one corporation, see Certain Relationships and Transactions in the Proxy Statement, which discussion is also incorporated herein by reference.
Contran
served as the registrants executive vice president and chief financial officer since May 2006.  He served as the registrants vice president from 2004 to 2006. Mr. OBrien has served as chief financial officer of Valhi since 2002 and vice president of Valhi and Contran since prior to 2002.  From prior to 2002 until 2005 and 2004, he served as treasurer of Valhi and Contran, respectively.  Mr. OBrien has served in financial and accounting positions with various companies related to the registrant and Contran since 1988.
Mr. OBrien, age 50,
Dr. Entrekin, age 58, served as the registrants president and chief operating officer since January 2007.  He served from 2003 to December 2006 as senior advisor to Safeguard International Fund, a private equity fund that specialized in investing in technology-oriented, industrial businesses in Western Europe and North America in the metallurgical, chemical, energy and environmental industries.  As part of his duties with Safeguard, he served from 2003 to 2004 as managing director of London & Scandinavian Metallurgical Co. Ltd., a multi-location company engaged in primary and secondary metals manufacturing and from September 2005 to December 2006, as president and chief executive officer of Timminco Ltd. (TSX:  TIM), an international producer and marketer of specialty magnesium and engineered magnesium extrusions, silicon metal and specialty ferrosilicon, calcium and strontium alloys.  From 1983 to 2002, Dr. Entrekin held various positions of increasing responsibility with the registrant, the last of which was executive vice president  commercial.
Mr. Brown, age 50, served as the registrants vice president, corporate finance since May 2006.  From 2003 to May 2006, he served as vice president and controller of NL Industries, Inc. and Kronos Worldwide, Inc., each a publicly held subsidiary of Contran.  From 1998 to 2002, he served as vice president and chief financial officer of Software Spectrum, Inc.  From 1994 to 1998, Mr. Brown served as vice president, corporate accounting of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., a provider of business process and information technology outsourcing solutions.
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on October 17, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The exhibit the registrant furnishes in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . October 17, 2007 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) announced today that it has entered into an agreement for the disposition of its minority common stock ownership position in CompX International, Inc. (CompX) (NYSE: CIX), that will result in a $18.3 million after-tax capital gain, or $0.10 per share, on a fully diluted basis. TIMET will transfer its rights to 2,696,420 shares of CompX common stock, in exchange for $52.6 million principal amount of promissory notes from CompX.  The Company will record the disposition in the fourth quarter of 2007 and utilize a capital-loss carryforward to offset the entire $18.3 million capital gain for income tax purposes.
TIMET also announced today that Bobby D. OBrien has been named President, Dr. Charles H. Entrekin has been named President-Global Operations and Chief Operating Officer and James W. Brown has been named Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  Mr. OBrien and Dr. Entrekin will continue to report to Steven L. Watson, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Mr. Brown will continue to report to Mr. OBrien.
Mr. OBrien has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TIMET since 2005 and has held executive officer and financial positions with TIMETs parent company, Contran Corporation, and related companies since 1988.
Dr. Entrekin rejoined TIMET in January 2007 as President and Chief Operating Officer and previously held various management and technical positions with the Company until 2002.
Mr. Brown has served as Vice President Corporate Finance of TIMET since 2005 and has held executive officer and financial positions with Contran Corporation and related companies since 2003.
Steven L. Watson, Vice Chairman and CEO, said the CompX transactions will allow us to divest of a non-titanium related asset, at an attractive value, and provide additional resources for future expansion of our productive capacity and other growth opportunities in our titanium business.  We have a strong balance sheet and significant sources of capital and liquidity to allow us to expand and grow our titanium capacity across all stages of our production process and invest in other growth opportunities, as we continue to respond to the long-term positive demand outlook in the titanium metal industry.
Mr. Watson also said the management of TIMET is committed to growing and expanding our business in a manner that will enhance long-term stockholder value.  In addition to the ongoing investment in our production facilities, we are also increasing our management and technical human resources consistent with the long term favorable outlook for the industry. The announced promotions recognize the efforts and contributions these individuals have made and reflect the commitment to their ongoing focus on future initiatives and opportunities to enhance the Companys growth potential.  We are very pleased with the high level of talent we have throughout the Company.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at
www.timet.com
.


