FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20070320113720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
On March 15, 2007, the registrant entered into an agreement for the purchase and sale of titanium products (the 
Supply Agreement
) with Rolls-Royce, Plc (
Rolls-Royce
) and certain of its affiliates.
The Supply Agreement was effective as of January 1, 2007 and, unless extended by the parties, will expire December 31, 2016. Under the Supply Agreement, among other things, the registrant will be the primary supplier of Rolls-Royces titanium requirements for gas turbine engines. The agreement also includes certain volume purchase and supply requirements and provides for future price adjustments.
The Supply Agreement will be filed as an exhibit to the registrants Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31, 2007, and portions of the Supply Agreement will be omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The foregoing summary of the Supply Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to all of the terms of the Supply Agreement.
On March 15, 2007, contemporaneously with entering into the Supply Agreement, the registrant and Rolls-Royce terminated that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement between Rolls-Royce and the registrant dated December 22, 1998, as amended, involving the purchase and sale of titanium products (the 
Prior Agreement
), which termination was effective as of January 1, 2007. Effective January 1, 2007, the Prior Agreements purchase and supply obligations and product pricing are being terminated and replaced by the Supply Agreements purchase and supply obligations and product pricing. The Prior Agreement would have expired by its terms on December 31, 2008. The foregoing summary of the Prior Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to all of the terms of the
:
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on March 19, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . March 19, 2007 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) (NYSE: TIE) announced today that it has entered into a new, long-term titanium supply agreement with Rolls Royce plc and certain of its affiliates (Rolls-Royce). The agreement, effective as of January 1, 2007, provides for TIMETs supply of titanium products to Rolls-Royce for gas turbine engine production through 2016. Total revenues over the term of the contract are estimated to be in excess of $2 billion. TIMET will continue to be the primary supplier of Rolls-Royces titanium requirements for its gas turbine engines.
Steven L. Watson, CEO and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of TIMET, noted, This new agreement extends our longstanding strategic relationship with Rolls-Royce to each companys world-wide affiliates, reflecting the global nature of our companies operations. We believe this new agreement also further solidifies TIMETs industry-leading position on hollow fan blade titanium components for aircraft engines and provides opportunities to grow with Rolls-Royce in the development of engine programs for the latest generation of twin-aisle aircraft such as the Trent 900 for the Airbus A380 and the Trent 1000 for Boeings 787 Dreamliner and offers potential growth in future programs such as the Airbus 350XWB.
The statements in this release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that represent managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, should, could, anticipates, expects, estimates or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy or trends. Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the cyclicality of the titanium metals and commercial aerospace industries, global economic and political conditions, changes in global productive capacity, the performance of TIMET, its customers and suppliers under long-term agreements, changes in customer inventory levels, changes in product pricing and costs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, availability of raw materials, competitive products, strategies and technologies, operating interruptions (including, but not limited to, labor disputes, fires, explosions, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, war and terrorist activities), the outcome of litigation and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the TIMETs Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products. Information concerning TIMET is available on its website at
www.timet.com
.


