FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20091229151547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
Effective December 28, 2009, the Board of Directors of the registrant approved the promotion of Bobby D. OBrien, the registrants president, to chief executive officer.  Mr. OBrien will continue to serve as the registrants president.  Steven L. Watson will continue to serve as the registrants vice chairman of the board of directors and Harold C. Simmons will continue to serve as the registrants chairman of the board of directors.
Mr. OBrien is an employee of Contran Corporation, a privately held parent corporation of the registrant, and provides his services to the registrant under an intercorporate services agreement among Contran and the registrant.  For a description of the intercorporate services agreement, see Certain Relationships and Transactions in the registrants Proxy Statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 9, 2009, which description is incorporated herein by reference.
 
has served as the registrants president since 2007.  He served as the registrants executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2006 to 2007 and as the registrants vice president from 2004 to 2006.  Mr. OBrien has served as chief financial officer and vice president of Valhi and Contran since prior to 2004.  From prior to 2004 until 2005 and 2004, he served as treasurer of Valhi and Contran respectively.  Mr. OBrien has served in financial and accounting positions with various companies related to the registrant and Contran since 1988.
Mr. OBrien, age 52,  
 
 
Item 7.01               Regulation FD Disclosures.
 
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on December 28, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The exhibit the registrant furnishes in this report is not "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . December 28, 2009 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) announced today that Bobby D. OBrien has been named Chief Executive Officer, in addition to his current position as President.
Mr. OBrien has served as President since 2007 and previously as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TIMET.  He has held executive officer and financial positions with TIMETs parent company, Contran Corporation, and related companies since 1988.  Steven L. Watson will continue to serve as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Harold C. Simmons will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Steven L. Watson, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, said, I am very pleased to announce the promotion of Bobby D. OBrien to serve as Chief Executive Officer of TIMET, an office previously held by me.  Bob and I have previously worked very closely together, and we will continue to do so in the future.  Much of the credit for TIMETs strong financial condition and excellent strategic position is due to Bobs leadership and direction.  As we begin to see tangible signs of an economic recovery and the strengthening of the aerospace industry, the many key TIMET initiatives Bob has undertaken will significantly benefit our business.  We believe the long term industry outlook for titanium products is very favorable and that TIMET is well positioned to capture and benefit from both current and long term opportunities.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at
www.timet.com
.


