FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20091116091255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 12, 2009, Titanium Metals Corporation () entered into a new, long-term titanium supply agreement with The Boeing Company () pursuant to Special Business Provisions and General Terms Attachment (the Supply Agreement).  As part of entering into the Supply Agreement, TIMET and Boeing amended the terms of the current Special Business Provisions (the ), which expires December 31, 2010.
TIMET
Boeing
SBP Amendment
The Supply Agreement will be effective as of January 1, 2011 and will expire December 31, 2015.  The Supply Agreement provides for, among other things, mutual annual purchase and supply commitments, the extension of the global titanium scrap recycling program, and the utilization of the TIMET Global Service Center Network.  The SBP Amendment sets forth, among other things, the annual purchase commitments for 2009 and 2010.
The Supply Agreement and the SBP Amendment will be filed as Exhibits to TIMETs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the calendar year ending December 31, 2009, and portions of the Supply Agreement and SBP Amendment will be omitted pursuant to requests for confidential treatment.  The foregoing summary of the Supply Agreement and SBP Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to all of the terms of the Supply Agreement and SBP Amendment.
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on November 16, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report.  This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
* Certain portions of this exhibit have been redacted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment filed with the SEC.   The non-public information that has been omitted from the document has been separately filed with the SEC.  Each redacted portion of this document is indicated by a "[ * ]" and is subject to the request for confidential treatment submitted to the SEC.  The redacted information is confidential information of the registrant and The Boeing Company.
** Filed herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
* Certain portions of this exhibit have been redacted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment filed with the SEC.   The non-public information that has been omitted from the document has been separately filed with the SEC.  Each redacted portion of this document is indicated by a "[ * ]" and is subject to the request for confidential treatment submitted to the SEC.  The redacted information is confidential information of the registrant and The Boeing Company.
** Filed herewith.

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . November 16, 2009 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) (NYSE: TIE) announced today that it has entered into a new, long-term titanium supply agreement with The Boeing Company (Boeing).  The new supply agreement will be effective on January 1, 2011 and will expire on December 31, 2015.  As part of entering into the new supply agreement, TIMET and Boeing amended the terms of their existing supply agreement which expires December 31, 2010. The new supply agreement provides for, among other things, mutual annual purchase and supply commitments, the extension of the global titanium scrap recycling program and the utilization of the TIMET Global Service Center Network.
Bobby D. OBrien, President, noted, TIMET and Boeing have a solid relationship that has developed and expanded over the past 40 years. This new agreement extends that relationship and allows us the opportunity to build upon the long standing strategic partnership between our companies.
Steven L. Watson, CEO and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of TIMET, noted, Through our focused efforts over the past few years, we have added significant capacity and flexibility to our operations, increasing our ability to respond to future industry growth and demand. Through these efforts and this new agreement, we are pleased to continue to be a key supplier and strategic partner in Boeings current and future programs.
The statements in this release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that represent managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, should, could, anticipates, expects, estimates or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the cyclicality of the titanium metals and commercial aerospace industries, global economic and political conditions, changes in global productive capacity, the performance of TIMET, its customers and suppliers under long-term agreements, changes in customer inventory levels, changes in product pricing and costs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, availability of raw materials, competitive products, strategies and technologies, operating interruptions (including, but not limited to, labor disputes, fires, explosions, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, war and terrorist activities), the outcome of litigation and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the TIMETs Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.  TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional information, please refer to TIMETs Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2009.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information concerning TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com


