FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20090506150602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosures.
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on May 5, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

TIMET REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . May 5, 2009 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $19.6 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, compared to $40.3 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
The Companys net sales were $203.4 million for the first quarter of 2009 compared to $293.7 million for the first quarter of 2008, a decrease of 31% principally resulting from lower average selling prices and reduced volumes.  In addition to competitive pricing pressures resulting from lower demand for titanium products, declines in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, have also contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long-term customer agreements, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements.  Although the Company believes long-term global demand trends for titanium are favorable, recent adjustments in production schedules for Boeing and Airbus, delays in the development of the Boeing 787 and a weak global economy are expected to continue to impact customer inventory levels, product demand and product selling prices until global economic conditions improve and commercial aerospace production schedules stabilize.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2009 was $26.4 million compared to $62.8 million for the same period in 2008, reflecting primarily the effects of decreased average selling prices for melted and mill products.  Additionally, the favorable impacts on the Companys gross margins from declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, were largely offset by higher per-unit overhead costs resulting from lower production volumes.
Bobby D. OBrien, President, said, Our operating results for the first quarter of 2009 reflect the softening demand for titanium products caused by recent trends in the global economy and in the commercial aerospace market.  Supply chain challenges resulting from production delays in new generation aircraft are being compounded by reduced passenger air traffic and the resulting weakness in global demand for commercial aircraft.  Despite this challenging environment, our past and ongoing initiatives to enhance operating flexibility without additional major capital expenditures, together with cost control measures, have contributed to our positive earnings, cash flows and strong financial position.
Customer demand for titanium products can be expected to remain soft until the global economy begins to improve and uncertainties surrounding commercial aircraft production levels begin to be resolved.  Due to limited visibility regarding the potential severity and duration of the current economic downturn, we will continue to monitor our business closely and make necessary adjustments to operating levels and cost structures as business and economic conditions require.  We remain confident that TIMETs flexible operating structure and financial strength, as evidenced by our positive cash flow, no long or short-term debt and cash and borrowing availability under our bank credit agreements of approximately $277 million, will continue to allow us to fully serve our customers and to realize significant long-term growth and earnings potential.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 


