FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20091105145052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosures.
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on November 5, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                                 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . November 5, 2009 . .. . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $1.1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, compared to $40.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
The Companys net sales were $181.4 million for the third quarter of 2009 compared to $295.4 million for the third quarter of 2008, a decrease of 39% principally resulting from lower volumes and average selling prices.  Product shipment volumes have decreased as overall titanium demand remains low due to the weak global economy and production delays within the commercial aerospace sector.  Additionally, as a result of these production delays, the Company believes many of its commercial aerospace customers have implemented strategies to reduce excess inventories and to maximize operating cash flows.  Average selling prices are lower due to competitive pricing pressures resulting from lower demand for titanium products and a decline in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap.  The decline in raw material costs has contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long-term customer agreements, in part due to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements.
Operating income of $3.5 million for the third quarter of 2009 decreased from $52.9 million for the same period in 2008, primarily reflecting the effects of lower volumes and average selling prices for melted and mill products.  Due to low utilization of our production capacity, the favorable impacts on our gross margin from declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, were largely offset by higher per-unit overhead costs as well as unabsorbed overhead resulting from abnormally low production throughout our major manufacturing operations.
Bobby D. OBrien, President, said, While near-term demand outlook remains unclear, Boeing has recently announced an expected first flight for the Boeing 787 prior to the end of 2009 and first commercial delivery during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Achievement of these milestones could mark the beginning of a period of growth in production rates throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain.  Overall industry outlook continues to support a long-term favorable trend in demand for titanium products.  We continue to emphasize cost control initiatives and operational flexibility in this environment while maintaining positive cash flow with no indebtedness and cash and borrowing availability under our bank credit agreements of approximately $360 million.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


