FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20100301124713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosures.
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on March 1, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . March 1, 2010 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $4.9 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, compared to $34.4 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2008.  Net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $34.3 million or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to $162.2 million or $0.89 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2008.
The Companys net sales were $183.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to $265.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, and net sales during 2009 were $774.0 million compared to $1,151.5 million during 2008.  The declines are principally the result of lower volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower average selling prices.  Product shipment volumes have decreased as overall titanium demand declined due to the weak global economy and the effects of production delays within the commercial aerospace sector.  Additionally, as a result of these production delays, the Company believes many of its commercial aerospace customers implemented strategies to reduce excess inventories and to maximize operating cash flows.  Average selling prices are lower due to competitive pricing pressures resulting from lower demand for titanium products and a decline in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap.  The decline in raw material costs has contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long-term customer agreements, in part due to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $9.3 million compared to $35.2 million during the same period in 2008, and operating income for 2009 was $54.9 million compared to $219.7 million during 2008, reflecting primarily the effects of lower volumes and average selling prices for melted and mill products.  Due to lower utilization of our production capacity in 2009, the favorable impacts on our gross margin from declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, were largely offset by higher per-unit overhead costs as well as unabsorbed fixed overhead costs resulting from abnormally low production throughout our major manufacturing operations.
The Company's results in the fourth quarter of 2008 include other non-operating income of $14.7 million consisting primarily of $6.8 million in foreign currency gains and a $6.7 million gain on the sale of an investment.
Bobby D. OBrien, President and CEO, said, Our operating results in 2009 reflect the softness in demand that has affected the entire industry.  Customer demand for our products is expected to recover and show improvement during the next year as inventory levels begin to stabilize within the commercial aerospace supply chain.  Boeing has recently completed successful initial test flights for the 787 aircraft and continues to target first customer deliveries during the fourth quarter of 2010, and if this timeline is met we anticipate production rates throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain will accelerate during 2010 and continue over the next two to three years, which should positively affect our sales and operating results.  We continue to believe the overall industry outlook supports a long-term favorable trend in demand for titanium products.  This trend is driven in part by the long-term demand in the commercial aerospace industry for a new generation of more fuel-efficient aircraft that require a significantly higher percentage of titanium than earlier models.  We continue to emphasize cost control initiatives and operational flexibility in this environment that has allowed us to maintain profitability, a strong balance sheet and positive cash flow with no indebtedness and cash and borrowing availability under our bank credit agreements of approximately $380 million.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
1
 
 
2
 


