FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20100803180344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on August 3, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . August 3, 2010 . . .. Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $19.0 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, compared to $8.6 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
The Companys net sales were $212.0 million for the second quarter of 2010 compared to $205.7 million for the second quarter of 2009.  The increase in net sales was primarily the result of an increase in melted product volumes partially offset by lower selling prices for melted products.  Factors contributing to the change in average selling prices for melted products during the second quarter of 2010 include lower annual pricing under long-term customer agreements primarily due to lower raw material index adjustments, lower spot market pricing and the relative mix of products sold during the period.  Customer requirements during the second quarter of 2010 have continued to reflect improving demand for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector, as manufacturing activity and inventory levels within the supply chain continue to recover and uncertainties within the sector continue to be resolved.
Operating income of $26.7 million for the second quarter of 2010 was up from $15.6 million for the same period in 2009, reflecting a higher gross margin percentage relative to net sales.  Our improved profitability reflects lower cost raw materials, principally titanium sponge and scrap, and higher utilization of our production capacity in 2010.
Bobby D. OBrien, President and CEO, said, In late 2009, we began to see strengthening demand for our products as our backlog and customer order levels began reflecting increased manufacturing activity, particularly in the commercial aerospace supply chain.  During the second quarter, we continued to see improvement in order activity and spot market pricing trends for both melted and mill products.  Our operating results for the second quarter of 2010 reflect these trends and the resulting benefit of higher utilization of our production capacity, both of which are expected to continue into the second half of the year.
The long-term demand trend for titanium products and our business remains favorable as the development and production of the next generation of more fuel-efficient aircraft continues throughout the aerospace supply chain.  The July 2010 forecast published by a leading aerospace publication, reflects increasing aircraft deliveries and titanium consumption over the next five years for fleet replacement and expansion.  This most recent forecast continues to predict record delivery levels over the next five years and thereafter, supporting our belief that long-term industry-wide demand will be strong for the foreseeable future.  We believe our focus on titanium metals and specialty titanium alloys for the aerospace industry, especially for jet engine applications, continues to provide us with a competitive advantage in light of the favorable long-term outlook for aerospace.  We also believe our fiscal discipline over the last several years, including our strategic projects which have enhanced our operating flexibility without the need for major capital expenditures, has positioned us with a strong balance sheet, positive cash flows and no debt giving us the ability to seize new opportunities to strengthen and expand our market presence as the global economic recovery continues to develop.
The Airline Monitor,
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
 
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
 
 
-1-
 
 
-2-
 


