FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20110505161030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on May 5, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . May 5, 2011 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $28.9 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to $16.7 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
The Companys net sales were $252.0 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $217.5 million for the first quarter of 2010.  The increase in net sales was primarily the result of an increase in product volumes and higher average selling prices.  The volume growth reflects improved demand for titanium products in the commercial aerospace and industrial sectors.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2011 was $45.0 million compared to $24.2 million during the same period in 2010, primarily reflecting higher sales volume and the related efficiencies resulting from greater utilization of our manufacturing capacity, as demand continues to improve.  Operating income in the first quarter of 2011 also includes the favorable impact of a $10.6 million pre-tax gain ($0.04 per diluted share, net of income taxes) on partial settlement of a claim to recover certain remediation costs attributable to a third-party facility adjoining one of our plant sites.
Bob OBrien, President and CEO, said, During the first quarter, demand throughout the commercial aerospace sector improved as build rates for legacy aircraft strengthened and pipelines for new programs begin to fill.  Our bookings rate is solid and backlog has grown to $680 million from $580 million at December 31, 2010.  We also have seen demand in the industrial sector begin to improve as infrastructure and chemical projects are reinvigorated by the global economic recovery.
"Increasing demand across these sectors favorably impacted spot prices during the quarter, and we anticipate this trend will continue over the course of the year.  We have continued our efforts to drive efficiency through process technology and cost reduction initiatives.  These efforts, together with our ability to flexibly utilize raw materials have also contributed to our positive operating results during the first quarter.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


