FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20110713120751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on July 13, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . July 13, 2011 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) (NYSE: TIE) announced today that it has amended the terms of its long-term titanium supply agreement with The Boeing Company (Boeing) and extended the agreement through December 31, 2018.  The supply agreement, together with joint technology development agreements, will continue to provide for, among other things, mutual annual purchase and supply commitments, the extension of the global titanium scrap recycling program and the utilization of the TIMET Global Service Center Network, and cooperative efforts on development of new titanium alloy and process capabilities.
Bobby D. OBrien, President and CEO, noted, We are pleased to be able to extend our longstanding supply relationship with Boeing. Through this extension and our technology development agreement we are excited about the opportunity to be a part of Boeing's accelerating growth on existing and new generation programs and have the opportunity to build upon the long standing strategic partnership between our companies."
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com


