FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20111102172352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on November 2, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . November 2, 2011 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $25.0 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, compared to $21.5 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2010.  The Companys results in each of the third quarters of 2011 and 2010 include the impact of a non-cash deferred income tax charge of $0.01 per diluted share, as discussed further below.
The Companys net sales were $262.5 million for the third quarter of 2011 compared to $210.3 million for the third quarter of 2010.  The increase in net sales resulted from increased sales volumes for both melted and mill products, reflecting improved demand for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector, as well as increased shipments of industrial products.
Operating income increased 7% to $38.5 million for the third quarter of 2011 compared to $36.0 million during the same period in 2010, reflecting higher sales volume, including the impact of the increase in sales of industrial products, which typically contribute lower gross margins as a percentage of revenue than our other products.
In each of the third quarters of 2010 and 2011, the United Kingdom enacted certain changes to their income tax laws, including a reduction in the U.K. corporate income tax rate. Because the Company has a net deferred income tax asset in the U.K., the impact of such tax rate reductions resulted in a non-cash deferred income tax expense of $1.5 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2011 and a non-cash deferred income tax expense of $1.0 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2010.
Bob OBrien, President and CEO, said, Demand for our products has been strong throughout the year, with record shipments in both melted and mill products through the first three quarters of the year.  Our commercial aerospace customers have significantly increased their purchasing activity due to build rates for legacy and next generation models and replenishment and growth of inventory to support the anticipated increase in future aircraft deliveries.
Demand is expected to remain strong for the remainder of the year and into 2012 in line with the industrys estimated timelines for fleet replacement and aircraft production.  We believe that the financial strength and operating flexibility we have established over the past several years position us to take advantage of opportunities to strengthen and expand our presence in key markets.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
-1-
 
 
-2-
 


