FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20120808124331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Item 2.02 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on August 8, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
Pursuant to Item 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press releases issued on August 7, 2012 and August 8, 2012, respectively, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press releases the registrant furnishes as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this current report are not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . August 7, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation () (NYSE:  TIE) announced today that its board of directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $.075 per share on its Common Stock, payable on September 19, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 10, 2012.
TIMET
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at www.timet.com.

Exhibit 99.2
 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . August 8, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to TIMET stockholders of $30.2 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, compared to $31.5 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, for the same period in 2011.
   
 
The Companys net sales were $281.7 million for the second quarter of 2012 compared to $272.0 million for the second quarter of 2011.  The increase in net sales was principally the result of increased average selling prices, partially offset by reduced volumes for industrial-grade melted and mill products.  Average selling price increases were driven by a continuation of strong demand within the commercial aerospace sector which resulted in a favorable shift in our product mix and annual adjustments under certain of our long-term agreements.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2012 was $43.7 million compared to $46.5 million during the same period in 2011, including a $2.1 million curtailment gain recorded in the second quarter of 2011 as a result of an amendment to a retiree medical benefit plan.  Excluding the curtailment gain, the positive earnings impacts of a favorable change in product mix substantially offset the impact of lower sales volumes of industrial-grade products in the current period.
Bob OBrien, President and CEO commented, We remain confident in a sustained growth pattern over the next several years in the commercial aerospace sector as the projected timelines for global fleet replacement and expansion are expected to generate significant titanium demand for our business in the years to come.  Temporary fluctuations in inventory levels in the aerospace supply chain and the project-oriented demand from the industrial sector may periodically impact our near-term demand, but we believe our customer supply agreements, which secure major positions on the engines and structures for key growth platforms, will bolster our core aerospace business for the foreseeable future.  To position ourselves for the expected demand growth under these platforms as the global fleet expands in developing areas, such as Asia, the Middle East and South America, we have initiated several capital projects to increase melt capacity and improve efficiency at certain facilities in the U.S. and abroad with completion expected within the next two years.
Our significant manufacturing and raw material flexibility and cost efficiencies throughout our manufacturing processes, together with the benefit of our customer long-term agreements, will allow us to efficiently manage our cost structure and production levels to maximize returns in the current environment of strong demand.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


