FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20120508154737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on May 8, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . May 8, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to TIMET stockholders of $25.6 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared to $28.9 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the same period in 2011.  The Companys results in the first quarter of 2011 include a $10.6 million pre-tax gain ($0.04 per diluted share, net of income taxes) on settlement of a claim to recover certain groundwater remediation costs attributable to a third-party facility adjoining one of our plant sites.
The Companys net sales were $276.7 million for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $252.0 million for the first quarter of 2011.  The 10% increase in net sales was principally the result of increased average selling prices and product shipment volume for our mill products, reflecting a continuation of strong demand for titanium products within the commercial aerospace sector.  The increase in the average selling price for our mill products was principally driven by annual adjustments under certain of our long-term agreements.
 
Operating income for the first quarter of 2012 was $42.1 million compared to $45.0 million during the same period in 2011, which included the $10.6 million settlement gain discussed above.  Excluding the 2011 settlement gain, TIMETs operating results increased 22% in the first quarter of 2012, reflecting an increase in gross margin resulting from increased prices under certain customer long-term agreements and the continued benefit of ongoing initiatives to improve operating efficiencies in our manufacturing processes.  Strong sales order activity in the commercial aerospace supply chain in support of the industrys estimated timelines for fleet replacement and commercial aircraft production has continued to drive the Companys operating results and product deliveries during the first quarter of the year.
Bob OBrien, President and CEO added, The continued development and production of next generation aircraft, combined with the resurgence in orders for recently reintroduced legacy models with new engines engineered for improved fuel efficiency and a strong OEM order backlog, are indicators that our industry has entered the sustained growth period forecasted by industry experts.  Aircraft deliveries over a longer time horizon are also expected to remain strong as fuel efficiency and expansion of the global fleet in developing areas, such as Asia, the Middle East and South America, support future demand.  Based on current industry dynamics, we expect continued strong commercial aerospace mill product deliveries for the remainder of the year and foreseeable future.
We have been successful over the past several years in establishing significant manufacturing and raw material flexibility and cost efficiencies throughout our manufacturing processes and together with the benefit of our customer long-term agreements, believe these core strengths will serve us well in the current environment of strong demand.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our 2011 results of operations as determined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), TIMET has disclosed below the Companys operating income, excluding the impact of the settlement gain, which is a non-GAAP measure that is used by the Companys management to assess the performance of its operations.  TIMET believes the disclosure of operating income, exclusive of the settlement gain, provides useful information to investors because it allows investors to analyze the performance of its operations in the same way that the Companys management assesses performance.
 
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
 
 


