FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20120229160345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this current report, the registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on February 29, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release the registrant furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report is not deemed "filed" for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Registration statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this information by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . February 29, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET or the Company) (NYSE: TIE) reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $28.6 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, compared to $23.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2010.  Net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $114.0 million or $0.64 per diluted share, compared to $80.6 million or $0.45 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2010.
The Companys net sales were $258.7 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $217.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, and full year net sales were $1,045.2 million in 2011 compared to $857.2 million in 2010.  The increase in net sales was principally the result of increased sales volumes for melted and mill products, partially offset by lower average selling prices for mill products during 2011.  The Companys shipment volumes increased for mill products for the fourth quarter and full year 2011, reflecting improved demand within the commercial aerospace sector as manufacturing activity and inventory levels within the supply chain continued to increase and improved demand for certain industrial products.  The decrease in average selling prices for mill products is primarily due to relative changes in product mix, with increased sales of industrial products in 2011 which are generally project-oriented and sell at lower prices than more complex aerospace grade products with higher alloy content.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $44.5 million compared to $33.9 million during the same period in 2010, and operating income for 2011 was $174.6 million compared to $120.8 million during 2010.  Operating income for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 reflects higher mill product sales volume and the related favorable impact on per-unit manufacturing cost of increased utilization of our manufacturing capacity, offset by the relative change in product mix.  Operating income for 2011 includes a $10.6 million ($0.04 per diluted share) gain realized in the first quarter on settlement of a claim to recover certain groundwater remediation costs.
Bob OBrien, President and CEO, said, Demand for our products has been strong throughout the year, with record shipments of both melted and mill products.  Our commercial aerospace customers have significantly increased their purchasing activity throughout the year due to increasing build rates for legacy and next generation models and replenishment and growth of inventory to support the estimated timelines for fleet replacement and aircraft production. Order activity has continued to increase into 2012, with backlog at the end of 2011 approximately 33% higher than end of 2010.
During the year, we continued expanding and extending our long term supply agreements with many of our customers including Boeing, Rolls Royce, Pratt & Whitney, GE Aircraft Engines, Sikorsky and others, in most cases extending these agreements through 2017 or 2020.  These agreements continue to secure a significant share of the titanium requirements for the aerospace market and provide us with major positions on key growth platforms such as the Boeing 787, Airbus A380 and A350 XWB, Boeing 737 MAX and Airbus A320 NEO and JSF.  Many of these agreements also include joint technology research cooperation agreements, making TIMET a preferred partner in the development of new titanium technology applications for these customers current and future programs.
We also continue to enhance our production capacities and capabilities and extend our product technology.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we acquired certain assets, intellectual property and know-how that will provide the capability to manufacture high quality titanium and other specialty alloy PREP powder.  Construction is underway to upgrade and install the equipment, and we expect the powder facility to be operational by the second half of 2012.  With the acquired assets and our existing technical resources and industry expertise, TIMET will develop a unique capability to consistently produce high quality titanium powder that our customers require to efficiently achieve near-net-shape manufacturing of complex parts.  We have also commissioned the addition of a plasma cold hearth melt furnace at our facility in Morgantown, Pennsylvania, currently expected to be completed in 2013.  The plasma melting technology will enhance our capabilities to meet the growing demand for complex, high-temperature alloys utilized more extensively in new generation aircraft engines and will complement our extensive electron beam and vacuum arc remelt capabilities.
Strong commercial aircraft order backlog, together with continued development and production of next generation aircraft and the re-introduction of legacy aircraft with new fuel efficient engines, signal that the industry has entered the sustained growth period that industry experts have forecasted.  The most recent industry forecast indicates record aircraft deliveries in each of the next three years and a record number of total aircraft expected to be produced over the next 10 years.  We believe that the financial strength and operating flexibility we have established over the past several years position us to take advantage of these opportunities.
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com
 
 
 
TITANIUM METALS CORPORATION
(In millions, except per share and product shipment data)


