FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20120517173242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
The registrant held its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders on May 17, 2012.  At the meeting, the registrants stockholders voted on the two proposals described in detail in the registrants definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2012.  Stockholders present at the meeting, either in person or by proxy, represented 76.27% of the 175,179,774 shares eligible to vote at the meeting.
Proposal 1:  Election of Directors
The registrants stockholders re-elected Mr. Keith R. Coogan, Mr. Glenn R. Simmons, Mr. Harold C. Simmons, Gen. Thomas P. Stafford (ret.), Mr. Steven L. Watson, Mr. Terry N. Worrell and Mr. Paul J. Zucconi as directors.  Each director nominee received votes For his re-election from at least 71.0% of the shares eligible to vote at the annual meeting.
Proposal 2:  Say-on-Pay, Nonbinding Advisory Vote Approving Executive Compensation
The registrants stockholders adopted a resolution, on a nonbinding advisory basis, approving the compensation of the registrants named executive officers as described in the registrants 2012 proxy statement.  The resolution received the approval from 75.5% of the shares eligible to vote at the annual meeting.
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on May 17, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

DALLAS, TEXAS . . . May 17, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation () (NYSE:  TIE) announced that its board of directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $.075 per share on its Common Stock, payable on June 20, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 11, 2012.
TIMET
TIMET also announced that at its annual stockholder meeting held today its stockholders had:
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at www.timet.com.


