FILE:TIE/TIE-8K-20120329170339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
The registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its press release issued on March 28, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  This exhibit that the registrant has furnished in this report is not deemed filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Registration statements or other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall not incorporate this exhibit by reference, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
DALLAS, TEXAS . . . March 28, 2012 . . . Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) (NYSE:TIE) announces the opening of a new European Service & Distribution (ESD) facility located in Ugine, France.  This new facility will operate as the central distribution hub for TIMETs expanding presence in Europe which includes titanium mill and melt operations in France, England, and Wales as well as an industrial fabrication facility in Italy.
The ESD will include a multi lingual customer service center-of-excellence and will house the largest and most diverse titanium mill product inventory in Europe with a versatile range of technical specifications supporting both international standards and customer specific requirements from key aerospace OEMs.  Customers will benefit from a wide range of services including cutting technologies, such as water jet cutting, and a variety of other value added and supply chain programs.  The ESD is ideally positioned to support the growing requirements for titanium in the aerospace, medical, and industrial markets.
The opening ceremony last week was attended by Herv Gaymard, Savoie General Council President; Frank Lombard, Mayor of Ugine; and nearly 100 customers.  On behalf of Safran group, Denis Vercherin, Senior Vice-President for Industry commented during the keynote address: We have a long term relationship with the TIMET group worldwide and specifically in France, recognizing TIMET product quality and innovation. We look forward to strengthening this business relationship with the increased level of service that TIMET will bring to the Safran group through this new facility, aiming at simplifying our supply chain management.
Jim Buch, TIMET Executive Vice President, noted The opening of ESD is indicative of TIMETs continuing commitment to exceptional service.  As an integral element of TIMETs capacity, product and technology expansions at our European and North American plants, the addition of the ESD to TIMETs capabilities will ensure TIMET continues to be prepared to respond to our customers growing needs.
 
The statements contained in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that represent TIMET managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information.  Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends.  Although TIMET believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it does not know if these expectations will prove to be correct.  Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and TIMET disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this release, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC which include, but are not limited to:
Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected.
TIMET, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is a leading worldwide producer of titanium metal products.  Information on TIMET is available on its website at .
www.timet.com


