Item 7. Managements Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations Forward looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Investors are cautioned that statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K that are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding current or future financial performance, managements plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, managements assessment of market factors, and statements regarding the strategy and plans of Red Hat and its strategic partners, constitute forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are not guarantees of Red Hats future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause Red Hats actual results in the future to differ materially from the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks detailed below and in Red Hats other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of which may be accessed through the SECs web site at http://www.sec.gov. Overview Red Hat offers users a single, trusted point of contact and a common platform for developing, deploying and managing open source software across Internet infrastructure and devices that connect to the Internet, ranging from small embedded devices to high availability clusters and integrated web server/e commerce operating systems. Red Hat Network, our unique management technology, helps companies efficiently manage their networks and systems by delivering open source products, services, support and information on line, in real time. Open source software is an alternative to proprietary software. There are no licensing fees associated with open source software. Therefore, we do not recognize any separate distinguishable value from the sale of the code itself. We derive the value from the sale of our open source solutions by the value we add through the integration and testing of open source technology and by the managed services we provide for our technologies through the Red Hat Network. We recognize our technology based revenue over the period of the technology subscription relationships with our customers. Critical Accounting Policies Our critical accounting policies include the following: Revenue recognition; Impairment of long lived assets. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with Statement of Position No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2), as amended by SOP 98 4 and SOP 98 9, and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101). Revenue recognition in accordance with these pronouncements can be complex due to the nature and variability of our sales transactions. Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue is comprised of enterprise and embedded revenues. Enterprise subscription revenue is comprised primarily of revenue from sales of Red Hat Linux and related software solutions, software development tools, technical support and maintenance fees. Official Red Hat 18 Linux was released in October 1994. Our current release is Red Hat 7.2 which was first shipped in September 2001. We sell Red Hat Linux software solutions through four channels: retail distributors, direct sales, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and the web. Revenue recognition periods vary for each channel based on the subscription period with Red Hat that the end purchasers of the solutions from these channels receive with these solutions. Through our retail distributors, we sell Official Red Hat Linux products to our enterprise customers. The product is currently offered in two versions: standard and professional. Each version has various levels of Red Hat support and software applications provided. During fiscal 2002, we sold two different releases of Red Hat Linux (7.1 and 7.2). We also provide certain support and subscription services with Red Hat Linux for a period of time, not exceeding two months, from the date of registration of the software products for no additional fee. As our technologies are all open source and freely available for download and use by others, a part of our value proposition is in the ability to provide the customer certain services that enhance the value of the technology. In accordance with the provisions of SOP 97 2, we recognize all of the revenue from the sale of Red Hat Linux ratably over the period that the subscription services are provided. A reserve for sales returns is recognized for sales of software products to distributors, who have a right of return, based on the Companys historical experience of sell through to the end user by the distributor. The return rate experienced by the Company over its last three product releases has averaged 18.0%. The fee is fixed and determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is probable and product returns are estimable. Our enterprise customers do not receive the right to future upgrades or new versions of our technology. Our subscription relationships with our large enterprise customers typically have contracts with multiple elements (i.e. delivered and undelivered products, maintenance and other services). We allocate revenue to each component of the contract based on objective evidence of its fair value, which is specific to us. The fair value of each element is based on the price if sold separately. Subscription revenue also includes revenue from several large Unix to Linux migration arrangements. Revenue from these arrangements have been recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement as no other pattern of performance has been discernable nor has there been specific evidence of the fair value of the elements of these arrangements. With the release of Red Hat Advanced Server in May 2002, we believe that we will begin to have specific evidence of the fair value of the elements of these larger enterprise arrangements. Web based software sales are recognized over the subscription period beginning when shipped. Revenue from our OEM arrangements are recognized over the subscription period beginning on the date we are notified sales have been made. In addition, our enterprise subscription revenue is partially derived from sales of Stronghold and Red Hat Network. Stronghold is a secure enterprise ready web server based on Apache and OpenSSL. Stronghold is available to complement Red Hat Linux Advanced Server as well as other operating systems. Red Hat Network is an internet based service to assure the security, availability and reliability of Red Hat Linux, Stronghold, Database, E Commerce and other Red Hat software solutions. Stronghold is the only software in which there is vendor specific evidence of fair value. We recognize separate components of revenue related to the software delivered and the support subscription agreement. We are able to estimate the value of Stronghold as the initial copy of the software is purchased with a support subscription and any additional support subscriptions are purchased separately. Red Hat Network is sold in the form of a monthly subscription. Revenues are therefore recognized on a monthly basis. Embedded subscription consists of revenue for technical support and maintenance services provided pursuant to software compiling, debugging, and optimization agreements. Revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement, which is typically twelve months. Services Revenue Services revenue is comprised of embedded development and open source services. 19 Embedded development services are contracts for compiling, debugging, and optimization of various open source software technologies. Revenue is recognized on the percentage of completion method, provided that we have the ability to make reliable estimates of progress towards completion, the fee for such services is fixed and determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Open source services is comprised of revenue for open source consulting and engineering services, customer training and education. Open source consulting services are provided under agreements where customers are paying us on a fixed fee or hourly basis to assist in the deployment of open source technologies. Revenue from customer training and education is recognized at the date the services are performed. Further implementation guidelines relating to SOP 97 2 and related modifications may result in unanticipated changes in our revenue recognition practices and such changes could significantly affect our future revenue and results of operations. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property and equipment and other assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). SFAS 144 requires that one accounting model be used for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and by broadening the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. An impairment loss is recognized when the net book value of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets or the business to which the assets relate. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended February 28, 2002 and February 28, 2001 Total revenue Total revenue decreased 3.3% to $78.9 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $81.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. Revenue from international operations totaled $23.4 million and $20.0 million during the years ended February 28, 2002 and February 28, 2001, respectively. Subscription revenue Subscription revenue is comprised of revenue from enterprise and embedded customers. Enterprise sales primarily relates to sales of Red Hat Linux and related software solutions, sales of software development tools, and technical support and maintenance fees. Enterprise subscription revenue decreased slightly to $36.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $36.9 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. This small decline represents a reduction in web advertising revenues of $2.5 million to $2.3 million in fiscal 2002 offset by an increase in enterprise subscription revenues of $2.4 million. The increase in enterprise subscription revenues primarily relates to sales of Red Hat solutions to large enterprise customers. There were no major markets added during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. We introduce a new version of Linux approximately every six months. Embedded subscription revenue decreased 36.2% to $5.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $8.6 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease in embedded markets is primarily due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending. 20 Services revenue Services revenue is comprised of open source services and embedded development services. Open source services includes fees received from enterprise customers for deployment, management and support of Red Hat open source solutions, and customer training and education fees. Open source services revenue increased 52.2% to $24.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $16.0 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase in open source services revenue is primarily due to revenues earned from relationships with the Global 2000 as a result of the increasing level of interest and adoption by large enterprises of Red Hat Linux as an enterprise computing platform. As a result of our restructuring from a retail software products company to a provider of open source solutions to the large enterprise, we expect this component of revenue to be our largest growth area in the next 12 24 months. Customer training and education services revenue also increased 26.2% to $14.4 million in year ended February 28, 2002 from $11.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase is the direct result of the expansion of our course offerings over the past two years and migration of larger enterprises to the Linux platform, increasing the need to train system administrators and developers. Embedded services revenue decreased 36.6% to $12.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $19.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease in embedded markets is primarily due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending. Cost of revenue Cost of subscription revenue Cost of enterprise subscription revenue primarily consists of expenses we incur to manufacture, package, distribute and support our solutions. These costs include expenses for physical media, literature and packaging, fulfillment and shipping, labor related costs to provide technical support and maintenance and bandwidth costs for Red Hat Network. Cost of subscription revenue decreased 32.6% to $9.9 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $14.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was directly related to a reduction in expenses incurred for physical media, literature, packaging and fulfillment, as well as efficiencies gained in providing technical support and maintenance of our products on line, global consolidation of our support and maintenance function and benefits of Red Hat Network in reducing support costs of Red Hat Linux based systems. Cost of services revenue Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of salaries and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges incurred for our personnel to deliver custom development, open source consulting engineering, training and education, and hardware certification services. We incur no direct costs related to royalties received from the licensing of our trademarks to third parties. Cost of services revenue decreased 9.1% to $18.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was primarily due to the reduction in number of personnel dedicated to providing custom development services to semiconductor companies and device manufacturers. We expect cost of services to increase as we further expand our service offerings. Cost of services as a percentage of services revenue is expected to vary significantly from period to period depending upon: the mix of services we provide; the number and scope of custom development contracts; 21 whether such services are provided by us or thirdparty partners and contractors; the overall utilization rate of our consulting staff; and the use of our Red Hat Managed Services and specifically Red Hat Network to deliver these services Gross Profit Gross profit increased 10.0% to $50.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $45.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This increase was primarily the result of our focus on operational efficiency, continuing to migrate the services we provide with our technology to be technology based services not people based services, and in selling more strategic, higher margin product solutions to major enterprise customers. Operating expenses Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for sales and marketing personnel, sales commissions, travel, public relations and marketing materials and tradeshows. Sales and marketing expense decreased 21.4% to $35.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $45.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was due primarily to reduction in redundant sales and marketing personnel and other variable costs. These personnel came from acquisitions completed in late fiscal 2001. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in enterprise sales costs as we began to increase the size of our direct outside sales force which sells into the Global 2000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. Research and development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for development of our software products and web site. Research and development expense increased 9.3% to $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $18.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase in research and development expense resulted from increased spending related to the development of our first enterprise class operating platform, Red Hat Advanced Server ($1.8 million), costs incurred to complete the aggregation, development and testing of Version 7.1 and 7.2 of Red Hat Linux, and an increase in spending related to the development of software development tools for the enterprise. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of merger and acquisition costs and personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for general corporate functions, including finance, accounting, legal, human resources, facilities and information systems expenses. Mergers and acquisition expense primarily consists of severance and related expenses incurred in connection with redundancies identified pursuant to mergers and acquisitions completed by the Company, as well as, the costs of certain individuals within the Company who are dedicated to seeking out and identifying potential acquisition candidates. In addition to this, mergers and acquisition expense includes legal costs incurred related to acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting. General and administrative expense decreased 37.2% to $22.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $35.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease resulted from: 22 a significant decrease in the number of companies acquired during fiscal 2002 resulting in, a decrease in merger and acquisition expenses to $4.7 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $9.2 million for the year ended February 28, 2001; a decrease in payroll and other administrative costs resulting from acquisitions completed in fiscal 2001; and a decrease in stock based compensation expense. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense consists of the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the net assets acquired in business combinations, is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is three years. Costs incurred for acquiring trademarks, copyrights and patents are capitalized and amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to five years. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense increased to $49.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $41.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This increase was primarily due to the numerous acquisitions that were completed in fiscal 2001 and accounted for as purchase transactions. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges consist of an impairment of $49.3 million in the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles related to acquisitions made in prior periods, various facility closings, and $5.7 million in severance and related expenses. These restructuring charges were primarily due to a sharpening of the Companys focus on UNIX to Linux migration opportunities in significant enterprises. As a result, the Company terminated certain employees of PTI and all employees of Hells Kitchen Systems and Akopia during fiscal 2002 as these technologies were aimed at the small and medium business market. In total, the Company terminated 160 employees. There was no restructuring charge in fiscal 2001. In the fourth quarter, we completed the re allocation of our resources to focus on the Global 2000 market which resulted in discontinuing our network consulting business. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of interest income earned on cash deposited in money market accounts and invested in short and long term fixed income instruments, net of interest expense incurred on short term debt and capital leases. Interest income, net, decreased to $15.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $20.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. These amounts are net of interest expense of $0.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 and $0.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease resulted from reductions in short term interest rates due to the actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board and lower average cash and investment balances in the year ended February 28, 2002 as compared to the year ended February 28, 2001 due primarily to the use of cash to partially fund operations and to pay merger and acquisition and restructuring costs. Discontinued Operations During January, 2002, the Company adopted a formal plan to discontinue its network consulting operations. Accordingly, the network consulting operations were accounted for as a discontinued operation beginning with the fiscal year 2000 consolidated financial statements. The Company completed the disposal of the network consulting operations in February 2002 through termination of associated employees. Loss on disposal of discontinued operations of $10.3 million in fiscal year 2002 included the write off of goodwill recorded in PTIs acquisition of ENS of $9.6 million, severance and related costs of $0.4 million, and a provision against accounts receivable of $0.3 million. 23 Years Ended February 28, 2001 and February 29, 2000 Total revenue Total revenue increased 90.5% to $80.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $42.4 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. Revenue from international operations totaled $20.0 million and $10.7 million during the years ended February 28, 2001 and February 29, 2000, respectively. We established international operations for sale of our software products in August 1999. Prior to August 1999, our international revenue was limited to revenue generated from custom development services performed for international customers. Subscription revenue Subscription revenue increased 79.5% to $45.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $25.4 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase was primarily due to the release of two new versions of Red Hat Linux during fiscal 2001, rapid growth of our international operations, introduction of new open source solutions during fiscal 2001 and an increase in technical support and maintenance revenue as a result of our increased focus on providing these services in fiscal year 2001 as compared to fiscal year 2000. Services revenue Services revenue increased 106.9% to $35.3 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $17.1 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. The increase in services revenue resulted primarily from an increase in custom development revenue due to an increase in the number, size and scope of custom development contracts, an increase in the number of network consulting engagements and expansion of the Companys network consulting and engineering offerings, and an increase in training and education revenue due to the expansion of our course offerings in the year ended February 28, 2001. Cost of revenue Cost of subscription revenue Cost of subscription revenue increased 6.4% to $14.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $13.8 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase was directly related to the increase in costs to provide telephone support and subscription services upon the release of Version 6.2 of Red Hat Linux and the increase in sales volumes as a result of the release of Version 7 of Red Hat Linux in September 2000 and costs incurred to provide technical support and maintenance services. This decrease was due to an increase in sales volumes, which resulted in a decrease in cost per unit, and use of the internet as a delivery mechanism for the technical support and maintenance of our products in the year ended February 28, 2001. Cost of services revenue Cost of services revenue increased 126.0% to $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $9.1 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase was primarily due to the addition of personnel to provide custom development, network consulting and engineering, training and education, and hardware certification services, and the development of our services organization. 24 Gross Profit Gross profit increased 119.5% to $45.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $19.6 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase was primarily the result of the increases in sales of software products, due to the release of Version 6.2 of Red Hat Linux in March 2000, the release of Version 7 of Red Hat Linux in September 2000, and web advertisements which were at a higher proportion relative to the associated cost of revenue. Operating expense Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense increased 87.9% to $45.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $24.0 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase was due primarily to higher advertising and promotional costs incurred to promote the release of Version 7 and 6.2 of Official Red Hat Linux, our web advertising and service offerings and, to a lesser extent, our new software development tools. This increase was also due to higher costs resulting from joint marketing arrangements with distributors and to increased stock based compensation charges. Research and development Research and development expense increased 54.9% to $18.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $12.1 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. The increase in research and development expense resulted from increased spending related to the development of our web initiatives and costs incurred to complete the development of Version 7 and 6.2 of Official Red Hat Linux and an increase in stock based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease in spending related to the development of software development tools as these products were completed during the year ended February 29, 2000. General and administrative General and administrative expense increased 45.7% to $35.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $24.3 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase resulted from: a decrease in merger and acquisition expenses to $9.2 million for the year ended February 28, 2001 from $12.7 million for the year ended February 29, 2000; an increase in payroll costs, due to an increase in the number of general and administrative personnel to support the growth of our business; an increase in stock based compensation expense; an increase in legal and accounting costs as a result of our becoming a public company and our geographic expansion; and an increase in insurance costs as a result of our becoming a public company. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense increased to $41.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $3.1 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. These increases were primarily due to the acquisition of HKS, ENS, Bluecurve, WireSpeed, C2Net, and Akopia during the year ended February 28, 2001. 25 Other income (expense), net Interest income, net, increased to $20.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 from interest income, net, of $4.1 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. These amounts are net of interest expense of $0.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001 and $0.7 million in the year ended February 29, 2000. This increase resulted from higher average cash and investment balances in the year ended February 28, 2001 as compared to the year ended February 29, 2000 due primarily to the receipt of proceeds from the sale of common stock in our initial and secondary public offerings in August 1999 and February 2000, respectively. Accretion of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock Accretion of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock decreased to zero in the year ended February 28, 2001 from $82,000 for the year ended February 29, 2000. Accretion of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock ceased with the completion of our initial public offering in August 1999 when all outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock converted to common stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically derived a significant portion of our liquidity and operating capital from the sale of equity securities, including private sales of preferred stock and the sale of common stock in our initial and secondary public offerings, and from cash flows from operations. At February 28, 2002, we had total cash and investments of $287.0 million, which is comprised of $55.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, $40.9 million of short term, fixed income investments and $190.6 million of long term, fixed income investments. At February 28, 2002, cash and cash equivalents totaled $55.5 million, a decrease of $29.7 million as compared to February 28, 2001. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulted primarily from: the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of sales of debt securities, of $16.1 million; cash used by operations of $7.5 million, including $1.1 million for payments of restructuring costs, primarily severance payments, and $8.5 million used for merger and acquisition costs and $0.8 million used by discontinued operations; purchases of property and equipment of $6.8 million; acquisition of a business of $1.0 million; and $6.7 million used to fund stock repurchases. These uses of cash were offset by $7.2 million of cash raised from borrowings, net of repayments, and $3.2 million in cash received from the exercise of common stock options and sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Cash used in operations of $7.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002, represented the net loss of $140.2 million, a decrease in deferred revenue of $3.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $3.9 million and a decrease in accrued expenses of $7.5 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $9.4 million and net non cash charges of $138.4 million. Cash used in operations includes $1.1 million for payments of restructuring costs, $8.5 million used for merger and acquisition activities and $0.8 million used by discontinued operations. In fiscal year ended February 28, 2001, cash used in operations was $39.6 million. The significant improvement in our cash flow used in operations in fiscal 2002 is a result of managements increased focus on improved operating results and preserving our cash balance. We expect to generate positive cash flow from operations on a GAAP basis in fiscal 2003. Cash used in investing activities of $23.9 million was comprised of the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of maturities, of $16.1 million, purchases of property and equipment mainly computer hardware and computer networking equipment totaling $6.8 million, and $1.0 million used to acquire a business. As market interest rates declined throughout fiscal year ended February 28, 2002, the Company used cash and cash equivalents to purchase fixed income debt securities to improve the yield on our investments. The $1.0 million used to acquire a business relates to cash paid in fiscal year 2002 for a business acquired just prior to the beginning of fiscal year 2002. 26 Cash provided by financing activities of $2.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 was comprised of $36.0 million in proceeds from issuing short term notes payable, net of $28.7 in repayments of short term notes payable, $0.6 million on proceeds from the sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan, and $2.6 million in proceeds from the sale of common stock. This was partially offset by $6.7 million used to purchase treasury stock, $0.8 million of notes receivable accepted, and $0.4 million in payments of capital lease obligations. The significant majority of the borrowings and repayments related to the $10,000,000 line of credit we initiated in August 2001. At February 28, 2001, cash and cash equivalents totaled $85.2 million, a decrease of $164.5 million as compared to February 29, 2000. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulted primarily from the purchase of net investments in debt and equity securities of $115.8 million, cash used by operations of $39.6 million, including $9.2 million of merger and acquisition costs, and $11.1 million for the purchase of office and computer equipment. Cash used in operations of $39.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2001, represented the net loss of $86.7 million, an increase in accounts receivable of $22.0 million, an increase in inventory of $1.0 million, an increase in intangibles and other assets of $4.2 million and a decrease in accounts payable of $3.6 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued expenses of $7.6 million and net non cash charges of $73.3 million. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from the release of Version 7 of Red Hat Linux to our distributors in September 2000 and to increased services performed by our network consulting and engineers during the year ended February 28, 2001 as a result of contracts acquired in the acquisition of ENS. Cash used in operations includes $9.2 million representing costs incurred related to merger and acquisition activities. Cash used in investing activities of $122.2 million was comprised of the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of maturities, of $115.8 million and purchases of property and equipment totaling $11.1 million, net of $4.7 million acquired through acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities of $1.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2001 was comprised of $6.4 million for the purchase of treasury stock, $3.9 million for the payment of dividends by PTI related to an acquisition in April 2000, and $3.6 million of repayments of notes payable. This was partially offset by of $5.5 million in net proceeds from borrowings by PTI, $5.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants, $1.2 million in proceeds from the sale of common stock and $0.6 million in proceeds from the sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. We have experienced a substantial increase in our operating expenses since our inception in connection with the growth of our operations and staffing and the expansion of our services operation and acquisition activity. Our capital requirements during the year ending February 28, 2003 will depend on numerous factors including the amount of resources we devote to: funding the development of our Enterprise Solutions, such as Red Hat Advanced Server; accelerating the development of our managed services offerings; expanding our product offerings; improving and extending our service offerings; pursuing strategic acquisitions and alliances; and making possible investments in businesses, products and technologies 27 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we used $1.2 million in operating activities, as compared to $1.2 million, $2.9 million and $2.2 million in the third, second and first quarters of fiscal 2002, respectively. Excluding restructuring and merger and acquisition costs, our adjusted cash flow provided by (used in) operations were $1.5 million, $0, $.9 million and ($.2) million for the first, second third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2002, respectively. Given the rate at which we have used cash to fund our operations during fiscal 2002 and the $287 million of cash and investments held at February 28, 2002, we do not anticipate the need to raise funds either through the sale of additional equity or through the issuance of debt for the foreseeable future. However, on May 15, 2002, the Company increased the size of its existing credit facility from $10 million to $15 million. This was done to provide the Company more flexibility in managing its working capital and to take advantage of current market interest rates, which are quite low by historical standards. We believe that cash flow from operations will continue to improve during fiscal 2003; however, there can be no assurances that we will improve our cash flow from operations from the current rate, or that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations. We may choose to accelerate the expansion of our business, which may require us to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through other financing means. There can be no assurances that any such financing would occur in amounts or on terms favorable to us, if at all. We have no off balance sheet financing arrangements and do not utilize any structured debt, special purpose or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. These standards become effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Beginning March 1, 2003, goodwill will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests. All other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. The new rules also require business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and goodwill acquired after June 30, 2001 will not be amortized. Goodwill existing at June 30, 2001, will continue to be amortized through the end of the Companys fiscal 2002. Through the end of fiscal 2002, the Company has tested goodwill for impairment using the current method, which uses an undiscounted cash flow test. During fiscal 2003, the Company will begin to test goodwill for impairment under the new rules, applying a fair value based test. Based on acquisitions completed as of June 30, 2001, application of the goodwill non amortization provisions of these rules is expected to result in a reduction of amortization expense in fiscal 2003 of approximately $24.3 million absent any impairment of the related goodwill. 28 Factors Affecting Future Results Risks Related to our Linux based Open Source Business Model We depend on the support of Linux developers not employed by the us to release major product upgrades and maintain market share. We may not be able to release major product upgrades of Official Red Hat Linux on a timely basis because the heart of Official Red Hat Linux, the Linux kernel, is maintained by third parties. Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux kernel, and a small group of independent engineers are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Linux kernel. If this group of developers fails to further develop the Linux kernel or if Mr. Torvalds or other prominent Linux developers, such as Alan Cox, David Miller or Stephen Tweedie, were to join one of our competitors or no longer work on the Linux kernel, we would have to either rely on another party to further develop the kernel or develop it ourselves. We cannot predict whether enhancements to the kernel would be available from reliable alternative sources. We could be forced to rely to a greater extent on our own development efforts, which would increase our development expenses and may delay our product release and upgrade schedules. In addition, any failure on the part of the kernel developers to further develop and enhance the kernel could stifle the development of additional Linux based applications. The scarcity of software applications for Linux based operating systems could prevent widespread commercial adoption of our products. Our products will not be able to gain widespread commercial adoption until there are more third party enterprise software applications that have been migrated to operate on Linux based operating systems. These applications include word processors, databases, software development tools, enterprise middleware, such as messaging and file system technologies, Internet browsers, presentation and graphics software. We intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on Linux based operating systems by attracting third party developers to the Linux platform, by providing open source tools to create these applications and by maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support for third party developers. If we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not gain widespread commercial acceptance and we will not be able to maintain our product sales growth. Our customers may find it difficult to install and implement Red Hat Linux Advanced Server, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Installation and implementation of Red Hat Linux Advanced Server often involves a significant commitment of resources, financial and otherwise, by our customers. This process can be lengthy due to the size and complexity of our products and the need to purchase and install new applications. The failure by us to attract and retain services personnel to support our customers, the failure of companies with which we have strategic alliances to commit sufficient resources towards the installation and implementation of our products, or a delay in implementation for any other reason could result in dissatisfied customers. This could damage our reputation and the Red Hat brand and result in decreased revenue. We may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. We do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. Historically, different groups of open source software programmers have competed with each other to develop new technology. Typically one of those groups develops the technology that becomes more widely used than that developed by others. If we adopt new technology and incorporate it into our 29 products, and competing technology becomes more widely used, the market appeal of our products may be reduced, which could harm our reputation, diminish the Red Hat brand and result in decreased revenue. Risks Related to our Financial Results and Condition We have incurred substantial losses on a GAAP basis in the past. We have incurred operating losses in six of our previous seven fiscal years, including our most recent fiscal year ended February 28, 2002. We do not expect to incur significant losses in the future, however, we cannot be certain when or if we will achieve sustained profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. You should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as an indication of our future results because they fluctuate significantly and are difficult to forecast. Due to the unpredictability of our business and the technology spending environment, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to forecast. We base our current and projected future expense levels in part on our estimates of future revenue. Our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly if our revenue falls short of our expectations. Accordingly, a revenue shortfall in a particular quarter could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. You should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. We may not be able to effectively attract additional enterprise customers and preserve relationships with current enterprise customers, which could adversely affect revenue. Historically, we focused our sales and marketing efforts on product sales to individuals. We have recently, however, begun to focus our efforts on expanding our enterprise customer base. To this end, we have invested extensively to attract enterprise customers. These enterprise customers expect diverse and extensive service programs, and if we are unable to continue to successfully expand and enhance our service offerings, we may not be able to meet these customers needs or attract new customers, and, consequently, our revenue would suffer. Our management team may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies because it has only recently begun to work together. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our management to work together effectively to meet the demands of our growth. Several members of our senior management have been employed by us for a relatively short period of time. These individuals have not previously worked together as a management team. The failure of our management team to work together effectively could prevent efficient decision making by our executive team, affecting product development and sales and marketing efforts, which would negatively impact our operating results. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued services of a number of key officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Matthew J. Szulik, our Chief Operating Officer, Timothy J. Buckley, our Chief Technical Officer, Michael Tiemann, and our Chief Financial Officer, Kevin B. Thompson. The loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these people could seriously impede our success. Moreover, the loss of one or a group of our key employees, particularly to a competitor, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the Red Hat brand. 30 With our declining stock price we may have increased difficulty in attracting and retaining highly skilled employees. As with most technology companies, a key component of our compensation package for our employees is stock options. With the decline in our stock price, many of the options granted in the last 18 months are now out of the money. In order to retain our highly skilled workforce, we may be compelled to grant new options. If such new options are granted, they are likely to have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively with Microsoft, other established operating systems developers, software development tools developers and other service and support providers. In the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial resources and name recognition than we have. These competitors, which offer hardware independent multi user operating systems for Intel platforms and or UNIX based operating systems, include Microsoft, Novell, IBM, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, AT&T, Compaq, Hewlett Packard, Olivetti and Unisys. Some of these competitors currently, or may in the future, produce and market open source operating systems. We also face competition in the market for software development tools and operating systems for special purpose computing, including embedded systems. Our competitors in this market, some of which have greater market share than we do, include Wind River Systems, MontaVista Software, Green Hills Software, and the Metrowerks subsidiary of Motorola. Some of these companies currently produce or use open source software as part of their product offerings. We may not be able to compete effectively in this market if customers choose proprietary solutions. If the demand for open source solutions in this market expands, however, we could lose market share as existing competitors reposition or new companies emerge to address the opportunity. As we increase our services offerings, we may face competition from larger and more capable companies that currently service and support the Linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly UNIX based operating systems, due to the fact that Linux and UNIX based operating systems share many common features. These companies, including IBM and Hewlett Packard, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and support on a more cost effective basis than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully with these current or potential competitors. If we fail to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. Our success depends on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers. These relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to through our direct sales and marketing efforts. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. In addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. As a result, the companies with which we have strategic alliances are free to pursue alternative technologies and to develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. 31 We may not be able to meet the operational and financial challenges that we will encounter as our international operations expand. As we expand our international operations, we will face a number of additional challenges associated with the conduct of business overseas. For example: we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business; fluctuations in exchange rates may negatively affect our operating results; we may not be able to repatriate the earnings of our foreign operations; we have to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws; we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks overseas due to the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; export controls and times of crisis could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets; multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures could significantly reduce the financial performance of our foreign operations; changes in import/export duties and quotas could affect the competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability in some international markets could result in the forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets. Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty We could be prevented from selling or developing our products if the GNU General Public License and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable. The Linux kernel and the official Red Hat Linux operating system have been developed and licensed under the GNU General Public License and similar licenses. These licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. We know of no circumstance under which these licenses have been challenged or interpreted in court. Accordingly, it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable in the event that someone were to file a claim asserting proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, would have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing our products. Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been and may continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that most of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. If errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital to eliminate them and yet may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all. Errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our 32 reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of Linux based operating systems and other open source software products. In addition, failures in our products could cause system failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. Although our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. These claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third party intellectual property rights particularly because our products are comprised of many distinct software components developed by thousands of independent parties. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that most of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. Claims of infringement could require us to reengineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products. In addition, an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property, or the use of significant resources to defend against this type of claim, could place a significant strain on our financial resources and harm our reputation. Our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights. Our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks. The protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. Although we do not believe that we have suffered any material harm from misappropriation to date, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights. We have registered some of our trademarks in the United States, Europe and Australia and have other trademark applications pending in the United States, Europe, Australia, Canada, Europe and Japan. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the Red Hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock price has been extremely volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; new products or services offered by Red Hat or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions or trends in the Internet, Linux and software industries; 33 changes in the economic performance and or market valuations of other Internet, Linux and software industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of common stock; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for Internet related and technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In addition, broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 34 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The primary objective of Red Hats investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains its portfolio of cash equivalents, short term and long term investments in a variety of fixed income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. The following table presents the fair value balances of the Companys cash equivalents and short term and long term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by year of expected maturity and average interest rates as of February 28, 2002 (in thousands): Year Ending February 28, 2003 February 29, 2004 February 28, 2005 February 29, 2006 February 28, 2007 Total Cash equivalents 55,468 55,468 Average interest rate 1.93 % Investments 40,928 49,213 74,232 23,495 43,641 231,509 Average interest rates 5.56 % 3.47 % 4.06 % 5.03 % 5.40 % Red Hat did not hold derivative financial instruments as of February 28, 2002, and has never held such investments in the past. Foreign Currency Risk Approximately 29.6% of the Companys fiscal 2002 revenues were generated by sales outside the United States. The Company is exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of the Companys non U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, and revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month the transactions occur. Unrealized translation gains and losses will be included as an adjustment to stockholders equity. 35 
 
