ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Investors are cautioned that statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K that are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding current or future financial performance, managements plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, managements assessment of market factors, and statements regarding the strategy and plans of Red Hat and its strategic partners, constitute forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are not guarantees of Red Hats future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause Red Hats actual results in the future to differ materially from the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks detailed below and in Red Hats other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of which may be accessed through the SECs web site at http://www.sec.gov. OVERVIEW We are the recognized global technology and brand leader in providing an enterprise operating platform based on open source technology for the information technology infrastructure of the Global 2000. We apply our technology leadership to create our enterprise operating platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux and related layered infrastructure technology solutions based on open source technology. Our enterprise solutions meet the functionality requirements and performance demands of the large enterprise and the third party computer hardware and third party software applications that are critical to the large enterprise. In April 2002, we launched the first in a line of Red Hat Enterprise Linux solutions for large enterprise customers; Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS. Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS was available for shipment in May 2002. Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS was developed to compete with proprietary Unix and Windows 2000 as the primary operating platform for applications in the middle tier and data center of the information technology infrastructure of large enterprises. In March 2003, we launched three additional technology solutions in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux line: Red Hat Enterprise Linux ES, Red Hat Enterprise Linux WS and Red Hat Enterprise Network. Red Hat Enterprise Linux ES and WS broaden the areas of the information technology infrastructure to which our enterprise operating platforms are relevant. For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2003, we sold approximately 36,500 subscriptions to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS platform. This significantly exceeded managements expectations of the number of subscriptions to be sold in the initial year of the release of the Red Hat Enterprise Linux technologies. Red Hat Enterprise Network broadens our systems management service offerings for the large enterprise. We provide the CIO of the largest companies in the world with the choice of a Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating platform for all application areas of the information technology infrastructure of the enterprise including the technical/developer workstation, the edge of the network, the middle tier of the information technology infrastructure and the data center. Red Hat Enterprise Network provides an integrated management service that allows our Red Hat Enterprise Linux technologies to be updated and configured and the performance of these technologies to be monitored in an automated fashion. These technology solutions, and the enterprise technology and systems management service offerings that will follow them, reflect our commitment to provide an enterprise wide infrastructure platform based on open source technology. Our ability to continue to increase market penetration and maintain competitive pricing for our enterprise technology subscriptions are critical to our success. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our critical accounting policies include the following: revenue recognition; and impairment of long lived assets 16 Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with Statement of Position No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2), as amended by SOP 98 4 and SOP 98 9, and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101). Revenue recognition in accordance with these pronouncements can be complex due to the nature and variability of our sales transactions. Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue is comprised of enterprise retail and embedded revenues. Enterprise subscription revenue is comprised primarily of revenue from sales of Red Hat Enterprise Linux software solutions, Stronghold Enterprise Secure Web Server, software development tools, and technical support and maintenance fees. During fiscal 2003, we released the first of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux offerings, Red Hat AS, ES and WS. Our Red Hat Enterprise Linux products have a one year base subscription period. The base subscription entitles the end user to one year of maintenance, which entitles the end user to configuration support and updates and upgrades to the technology, when and if available, during the term of the subscriptions. We recognize revenue from the sale of our enterprise offerings ratably over the period of the subscription. Our subscription relationships with our large enterprise customers typically have contracts with multiple elements (i.e., delivered and undelivered products, maintenance and other services). We allocate revenue to each component of the contract based on objective evidence of its fair value, which is specific to us. The fair value of each element is based on the price if sold separately. Enterprise subscription revenue also includes revenue from several large Unix to Linux migration arrangements which were sold prior to the release of Red Hat Enterprise Linux in May 2002. Revenue from these arrangements has been recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, as no other pattern of performance has been discernible nor has there been specific evidence of the fair value of the elements of these arrangements. These arrangements all reached maturity during fiscal 2003 and have been replaced by subscriptions to Red Hat Enterprise Linux. With the release of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, we believe that we now have specific evidence of the fair value of the elements of these larger enterprise arrangements and allocate revenue accordingly. Our current release at February 28, 2003 was Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS 2.1 which was first shipped in May 2002. We sell Red Hat Linux subscription solutions through four channels: direct sales, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), value added resellers and the Internet. Revenue recognition periods for each channel are based on the subscription period with Red Hat that the end purchasers of the subscriptions from these channels receive, which is generally one year. In addition, our enterprise subscription revenue is partially derived from sales of subscriptions to Stronghold Enterprise Secure Web Server and Red Hat Enterprise Network, and several other enterprise technologies that we distribute. Stronghold Enterprise Secure Web Server is available as a layered technology on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, as well as other operating systems. Red Hat Network is an Internet based or inside the corporate firewall based systems management service to assure the security, availability and reliability of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Stronghold Enterprise Secure Web Server, and other Red Hat software solutions. Red Hat Enterprise Network is sold in the form of a monthly or annual subscription. Revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period. Through our retail distributors, we sell Red Hat Linux consumer products. The retail product is currently offered in two versions: standard and professional. Each version has a different level of Red Hat support and software applications provided. During fiscal 2003, we sold two different releases of Red Hat Linux (7.3 and 8.0). We also provide certain support and subscription services with Red Hat Linux for a period of time, not exceeding two months for no additional fee. We recognize all of the revenue from the sale of Red Hat Linux 17 ratably over the period that the subscription services are provided. A reserve for sales returns is recognized for sales of retail software products to distributors, who have a right of return, based on the Companys historical experience of sell through to the end user by the distributor. The return rate experienced by the Company over its last three retail product releases has averaged 18.0%. The fee is fixed and determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is probable and product returns are estimable. Embedded subscription revenue consists of revenue for technical support and maintenance services provided pursuant to software compiling, debugging, and optimization agreements. Revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement, which is typically 12 months. Services Revenue Services revenue is comprised of enterprise technology services and embedded development. Enterprise technology services is comprised of revenue for enterprise consulting and engineering services, and customer training and education. Enterprise technology services are provided under agreements whereby customers pay us on a fixed fee or hourly basis to assist in the deployment of our enterprise technologies. Enterprise technology engineering services represent revenues earned under arrangements with our OEM partners to add functionality to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux line of technologies and is generally recognized on a percentage of completion basis. Revenue from customer training and education is recognized at the date the services are performed. Embedded development services are contracts for compiling, debugging, and optimization of various open source software technologies. Revenue is recognized on the percentage of completion method, provided that we have the ability to make reliable estimates of progress towards completion, the fee for such services is fixed and determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property and equipment and other assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). SFAS 144 requires that one accounting model be used for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. An impairment loss is recognized when the net book value of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets or the business to which the assets relate. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended February 28, 2003 and February 28, 2002 Total revenue Total revenue increased 15.2% to $90.9 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $78.9 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The increase was driven by significant growth in our enterprise subscription and services revenues of our business partially offset by a decline in the embedded segment of our business. Subscription revenue Subscription revenue is comprised of revenue from enterprise technologies, retail technologies and embedded customers. Subscription revenue increased to $48.6 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $42.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2002. 18 Enterprise technologies Enterprise technologies revenue primarily relates to both direct and indirect sales of Red Hat Enterprise Linux and other related enterprise software solutions such as Red Hat Enterprise Network and Stronghold Enterprise Secure Web Server. Enterprise technologies revenue increased 71.6% to $30.4 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $17.7 million for the year ended February 28, 2002. For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2003, we sold approximately 36,500 subscriptions to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS platform. This significantly exceeded managements expectations of the number of subscriptions to be sold in the initial year of the release of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux technologies. In addition, Red Hat Enterprise Network, our systems management services offering, increased revenue by $1.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2003. Our enterprise offerings are sold with annual renewable subscriptions and all have 12 month revenue recognition periods to match the subscription period. Therefore, we will continue to recognize revenue on these subscriptions through fiscal 2004 and expect to increase the number of subscriptions sold to Red Hat Enterprise technologies sequentially quarter over quarter during the next 12 months. We are focused on building the first layer of renewable enterprise subscriptions which will begin to renew in the third quarter of our fiscal 2004. Retail technologies Retail technologies revenue, which consists of sales of Red Hat Linux to consumers through either value added resellers or distributors, decreased 22.2% to $14.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $19.1 million for the year ended February 28, 2002. This decrease is due to our focus during fiscal 2003 on the sale of subscriptions to our enterprise technologies to large enterprise customers rather than on the consumer market. We will continue to address the consumer market with our Red Hat Linux release which occurs every six months. Retail technologies revenue has been separately stated on the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations as this market is no longer a strategic source of revenue for the Company but instead represents a channel for providing leading edge technology to sophisticated users. These users will help us improve this new technology to the point it has the stability to be introduced into our enterprise offerings. We expect our retail revenues to decline slightly in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Embedded Embedded subscription revenue decreased 39.7% to $3.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $5.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2002. The decrease in embedded markets is primarily due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending. We will continue to maintain a small but strategic presence in this market as we believe that a Linux/open source platform will provide a significant value advantage in the future. Services revenue Enterprise technologies Enterprise technologies services include fees received from enterprise customers for deployment of Red Hat Enterprise technologies, customer training and education fees and fees received for adding certain functionality to Red Hat Enterprise Linux for our major hardware partners. Enterprise technology services revenue increased 58.2% to $38.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $24.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The increase in enterprise technology services revenue is primarily due to an increase in the revenue earned from relationships with our OEM partners of approximately $7.7 million and a $2.9 million increase in consulting services related to services performed for large enterprise customers for the deployment of Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Customer training and education services revenue also increased 24.2% to $17.9 million in year ended February 28, 2003 from $14.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The increase in all components of our services revenues is the direct result of the continued migration of larger enterprises to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux platform from a proprietary Unix platform and the momentum behind the acceptance of Red Hat Enterprise Linux as a mission critical computing platform for the large enterprise. 19 Embedded Embedded services revenue decreased 68.9% to $3.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $12.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2002. The decrease in embedded services revenues is due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending and due to our reduction in focus and personnel dedicated to this business to a small core team which maintains a strategic presence in this marketplace. Revenues from this segment of our business will be flat to declining in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Cost of revenue Cost of subscription revenue Cost of enterprise subscription revenue primarily consists of expenses we incur to manufacture, package, distribute and support our solutions. These costs include labor related costs to provide technical support and maintenance, bandwidth costs for Red Hat Network, and expenses for physical media, literature, packaging, and shipping. Cost of subscription revenue decreased 5.2% to $8.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $9.1 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. This decrease was related to a $1.4 million reduction in expenses incurred for physical media, literature, packaging and fulfillment related to our retail product, which is consistent with the decline in retail revenues, partially offset by an increase in the cost of providing technical support and maintenance for our enterprise products. Cost of services revenue Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of salaries and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges incurred for our personnel to deliver custom development, enterprise consulting, engineering, training and education, and hardware certification services. We incur no direct costs related to royalties received from the licensing of our trademarks to third parties. Cost of services revenue increased $3.6 million or 19.9% to $22.3 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $18.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The increase is directly related to the increase in our enterprise technologies services revenue. The cost of our customer training and education services increased $1.4 million and our enterprise consulting services increased by $5.2 million related to headcount additions to our consulting staff. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.9 million in embedded development services costs as a result of the restructuring of this segment which was completed in February 2002. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 18.0% to $59.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $50.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. This increase was entirely due to the increase in revenue and profitability related to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux offerings which were introduced during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2003 and carry significantly higher gross margins than our retail and embedded product offerings. The strength in growth and profitability of our enterprise business was offset by the significant decline in the embedded segment which had gross profit of $2.9 million in fiscal 2003 as compared to $10.3 million in fiscal 2002. Operating expenses Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for sales and marketing personnel, sales commissions, travel, public relations and marketing materials and tradeshows. Sales and marketing expense decreased 5.8% to $33.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $35.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. This decrease was 20 primarily due to a reduction in our spend on marketing activities of $2.3 million partially offset by an increase in enterprise sales costs as we increased the size of our direct outside sales force. Research and development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for development of software technologies and systems management offerings. Research and development expense increased 9.3% to $22.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The increase in research and development expense resulted from increased spending of $4.8 million related to the addition of approximately 52 enterprise engineers during late fiscal 2002 and throughout fiscal 2003 to support the development and integration of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating platform and Red Hat Enterprise Network, partially offset by a decrease of $2.9 million in non cash stock based compensation expenses as certain deferred compensation balances were fully amortized during fiscal 2003. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for general corporate functions, including finance, accounting, legal, human resources, facilities and information systems expenses. Mergers and acquisitions expense primarily consists of severance and related expenses incurred in connection with redundancies identified pursuant to mergers and acquisitions completed by the Company. In addition to this, mergers and acquisition expense in years prior to fiscal 2003 includes legal costs incurred related to acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting. General and administrative expense decreased 19.4% to $17.9 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $22.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. This decrease resulted from a significant decrease in the number of companies acquired during fiscal 2003 resulting in, a decrease in merger and acquisition expenses to $522,000 for the year ended February 28, 2003 from $4.7 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 and a decrease in stock based compensation expense of $1.8 million, partially offset by increased health and directors and officers insurance costs and bad debt expenses. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense decreased to $1.1 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $49.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. The decrease in amortization of goodwill and intangibles is primarily due to the fact that for the year ended February 28, 2003, no amortization of goodwill was recorded as prescribed by new accounting principles. Costs incurred for acquiring trademarks, copyrights and patents as well as capitalized software are capitalized as intangibles and amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to five years. Amortization of intangibles expense was not materially different from year to year. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges for the year ended February 28, 2002, which totaled $56.1 million, consist of an impairment of $49.3 million in the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles related to acquisitions made in prior periods, various facility closings, and $5.7 million in severance and related expenses. These restructuring charges were primarily due to a sharpening of the Companys focus on providing an enterprise class operating platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, to significant enterprises. As a result, the Company terminated certain employees of Planning Technologies, Inc., (PTI) and all employees of Hells Kitchen Systems, Inc., (HKS) and Akopia, Inc. (Akopia) during fiscal 2002 as these technologies were aimed at the small and medium business market. In total, the Company terminated 160 employees. 21 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we completed the re allocation of our resources to focus on the Global 2000 market which resulted in discontinuing our network consulting business. The additional restructuring charge in fiscal 2003 of $1.5 million related to some additional severance for employees affected by the restructuring which were not notified until after February 28, 2002. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of interest income earned on cash deposited in money market accounts and invested in short and long term fixed income instruments, net of interest expense incurred on short term debt and capital leases and foreign currency revaluation gains and losses. Interest income (expense), net, decreased to $10.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2003 from $15.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002. These amounts are net of interest expense of $502,000 in the year ended February 28, 2003 and $172,000 in the year ended February 28, 2002. The decrease in interest income (expense), net, from an average return on our investments of 5.2% in fiscal 2002 to a return of 4.3% in fiscal 2003, resulted from reinvestment of proceeds from the sales and maturities of fixed income investments in a declining interest rate environment that existed throughout fiscal 2003. In addition, we incurred foreign currency losses of $829,000 in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 as a result of the weakening U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the Japanese Yen which reduced our other income in fiscal 2003. Discontinued operations During January 2002, the Company adopted a formal plan to discontinue its network consulting operations. Accordingly, the network consulting operations were accounted for as a discontinued operation beginning with the fiscal year 2001 consolidated financial statements. The Company completed the disposal of the network consulting operations in February 2002 through termination of associated employees. Loss on disposal of discontinued operations of $10.3 million in fiscal year 2002 included the write off of goodwill recorded in PTIs acquisition of Enterprise Network Systems, Inc., (ENS) of $9.6 million, severance and related costs of $0.4 million, and a provision against accounts receivable of $0.3 million. Years Ended February 28, 2002 and February 28, 2001 Total revenue Total revenue decreased 2.4% to $78.9 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $80.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. Revenue from international operations totaled $23.4 million and $20.0 million during the years ended February 28, 2002 and February 28, 2001, respectively. Subscription revenue Enterprise technologies subscription revenue decreased slightly to $36.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $36.9 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. This small decline represents a reduction in Internet advertising revenues of $2.5 million to $2.3 million in fiscal 2002 offset by an increase in enterprise subscription revenues of $2.4 million. The increase in enterprise subscription revenues primarily relates to sales of Red Hat solutions to large enterprise customers. There were no major markets added during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Embedded subscription revenue decreased 36.2% to $5.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $8.6 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease in embedded markets is primarily due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending. 22 Services revenue Enterprise technology services revenue increased 52.2% to $24.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $16.0 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase in enterprise technology services revenue is primarily due to revenues earned from relationships with the Global 2000 as a result of the increasing level of interest and adoption by large enterprises of Red Hat Linux as an enterprise computing platform. Customer training and education services revenue also increased 26.2% to $14.4 million in year ended February 28, 2002 from $11.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase is the direct result of the expansion of our course offerings over the past two years and migration of larger enterprises to the Linux platform, increasing the need to train system administrators and developers. Embedded services revenue decreased 36.6% to $12.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $19.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease in embedded markets is primarily due to the continued weak performance of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries which has impacted research and development spending. Cost of revenue Cost of subscription revenue Cost of enterprise subscription revenue primarily consists of expenses we incur to manufacture, package, distribute and support our solutions. These costs include expenses for physical media, literature and packaging, fulfillment and shipping, labor related costs to provide technical support and maintenance and Internet bandwidth costs for Red Hat Network. Cost of subscription revenue decreased 32.6% to $9.9 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $14.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was directly related to a reduction in expenses incurred for physical media, literature, packaging and fulfillment, as well as efficiencies gained in providing technical support and maintenance of our products on line, global consolidation of our support and maintenance function and benefits of Red Hat Network in reducing support costs of Red Hat Linux based systems. Cost of services revenue Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of salaries and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges incurred for our personnel to deliver custom development, open source consulting engineering, training and education, and hardware certification services. We incur no direct costs related to royalties received from the licensing of our trademarks to third parties. Cost of services revenue decreased 9.1% to $18.6 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was primarily due to the reduction in number of personnel dedicated to providing custom development services to semiconductor companies and device manufacturers. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 10.0% to $50.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $45.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This increase was primarily the result of our focus on operational efficiency, continuing to migrate the services we provide with our technology to be technology based services as opposed to people based services, and in selling more strategic, higher margin product solutions to major enterprise customers. Operating expenses Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for sales and marketing personnel, sales commissions, travel, public 23 relations and marketing materials and tradeshows. Sales and marketing expense decreased 21.4% to $35.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $45.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease was due primarily to reduction in redundant sales and marketing personnel and other variable costs. These personnel came from acquisitions completed in late fiscal 2001. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in enterprise sales costs as we began to increase the size of our direct outside sales force which sells into the Global 2000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. Research and development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for development of our software products and website. Research and development expense increased 9.3% to $20.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $18.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The increase in research and development expense resulted from increased spending related to the development of our first enterprise class operating platform, Red Hat Advanced Server ($1.8 million), costs incurred to complete the aggregation, development and testing of Version 7.1 and 7.2 of Red Hat Linux, and an increase in spending related to the development of software development tools for the enterprise. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of merger and acquisition costs and personnel and related costs including non cash, stock based compensation charges for general corporate functions, including finance, accounting, legal, human resources, facilities and information systems expenses. Mergers and acquisition expense primarily consists of severance and related expenses incurred in connection with redundancies identified pursuant to mergers and acquisitions completed by the Company, as well as the employment costs of individuals within the Company who are dedicated to seeking out and identifying potential acquisition candidates. In addition to this, mergers and acquisition expense includes legal costs incurred related to acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting. General and administrative expense decreased 37.2% to $22.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $35.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This decrease resulted from: a significant decrease in the number of companies acquired during fiscal 2002 resulting in a decrease in merger and acquisition expenses to $4.7 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 from $9.2 million for the year ended February 28, 2001; a decrease in payroll and other administrative costs resulting from acquisitions completed in fiscal 2001; and a decrease in stock based compensation expense. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense consists of the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the net assets acquired in business combinations, is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is three years. Costs incurred for acquiring trademarks, copyrights and patents are capitalized and amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to five years. Amortization of goodwill and intangibles expense increased to $49.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $41.7 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. This increase was primarily due to the numerous acquisitions that were completed in fiscal 2001 and accounted for as purchase transactions. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges consist of an impairment of $49.3 million in the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles related to acquisitions made in prior periods, various facility closings, and $5.7 million in severance 24 and related expenses. These restructuring charges were primarily due to a sharpening of the Companys focus on UNIX migration opportunities. As a result, the Company terminated certain employees of PTI and all employees of HKS and Akopia during fiscal 2002 as these technologies were aimed at the small and medium business market. In total, the Company terminated 160 employees. There was no restructuring charge in fiscal 2001. In the fourth quarter, we completed the re allocation of our resources to focus on the Global 2000 market which resulted in discontinuing our network consulting business. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of interest income earned on cash deposited in money market accounts and invested in short and long term fixed income instruments, net of interest expense incurred on short term debt and capital leases. Interest income, net, decreased to $15.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 from $20.8 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. These amounts are net of interest expense of $0.2 million in the year ended February 28, 2002 and $0.4 million in the year ended February 28, 2001. The decrease resulted from reductions in short term interest rates due to the actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board and lower average cash and investment balances in the year ended February 28, 2002 as compared to the year ended February 28, 2001 due primarily to the use of cash to partially fund operations and to pay merger and acquisition and restructuring costs. Discontinued operations During January, 2002, the Company adopted a formal plan to discontinue its network consulting operations. Accordingly, the network consulting operations were accounted for as a discontinued operation beginning with the fiscal year 2001 consolidated financial statements. The Company completed the disposal of the network consulting operations in February 2002 through termination of associated employees. Loss on disposal of discontinued operations of $10.3 million in fiscal year 2002 included the write off of goodwill recorded in PTIs acquisition of ENS of $9.6 million, severance and related costs of $0.4 million, and a provision against accounts receivable of $0.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically derived a significant portion of our liquidity and operating capital from the sale of equity securities, including private sales of preferred stock and the sale of common stock in our initial and secondary public offerings, and from cash flows from operations. At February 28, 2003, we had total cash and investments of $292.3 million, which is comprised of $45.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, $45.2 million of short term, fixed income investments and $201.9 million of long term, fixed income investments. At February 28, 2002 we had total cash and investments of approximately $287.0 million. At February 28, 2003, cash and cash equivalents totaled $45.2 million, a decrease of $10.2 million as compared to February 28, 2002. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from: the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of sales of debt securities, of $8.3 million, cash used by operations of $755,000, purchases of property and equipment of $6.8 million, cash used in the acquisition of a business of $1.2 million, and $764,000 used to fund stock repurchases. These uses of cash were offset by $4.9 million of cash raised from borrowings, net of repayments, and $3.0 million in cash received from the exercise of common stock options and sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Cash used in operations of $755,000 in the year ended February 28, 2003, represented the net loss of $6.6 million, an increase in accounts receivable of $8.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $2.1 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $1.0 million and a decrease in accrued expenses of $6.3 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $8.9 million, an increase in deferred lease credits of $1.6 million and net non cash charges of $13.7 million. Cash used in operations during fiscal 2003 includes $2.5 million for payments of restructuring costs. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2002, 25 cash used in operations was $7.5 million. The significant improvement in our cash flow used in operations in fiscal 2003 is a result of managements increased focus on improved operating results and preserving our cash balance, as well as a result of sales of annual subscriptions to Red Hat Enterprise Linux. We expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in fiscal 2004. Cash used in investing activities of $16.2 million was comprised of the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of maturities, of $8.3 million, purchases of property and equipment mainly computer software, hardware and computer networking equipment totaling $6.8 million, and $1.2 million in cash used to acquire a business. As market interest rates declined throughout the fiscal year ended February 28, 2003, the Company used cash and cash equivalents to purchase fixed income debt securities to improve the yield on our investments. The $1.2 million used to acquire a business relates to cash paid in October 2002 as part of the acquisition cost of NOCpulse, Inc. Cash provided by financing activities of $5.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2003 was comprised of $4.9 million in net proceeds from borrowings from our line of credit and $3.0 million in proceeds received from the sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan and from the exercise of common stock options. This was partially offset by $764,000 used to purchase 200,000 shares of treasury stock during fiscal 2003, and $1.3 million in payments under capital lease obligations. At February 28, 2002, cash and cash equivalents totaled $55.5 million, a decrease of $29.7 million as compared to February 28, 2001. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulted primarily from: the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of sales of debt securities, of $16.1 million, cash used by operations of $7.5 million, $0.8 million in net cash used by discontinued operations, purchases of property and equipment of $6.8 million, acquisition of a business of $1.0 million, and $6.7 million used to fund stock repurchases. These uses of cash were offset by $7.2 million of cash raised from borrowings under our line of credit, net of repayments, and $3.2 million in cash received from the exercise of common stock options and sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Cash used in operations of $7.5 million in the year ended February 28, 2002, represented the net loss of $140.2 million, a decrease in deferred revenue of $3.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $3.9 million and a decrease in accrued expenses of $7.5 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $9.4 million and net non cash charges of $138.4 million. Cash used in operations includes $1.1 million for payments of restructuring costs, $8.5 million for merger and acquisition activities and $0.8 million used by discontinued operations. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2001, cash used in operations was $39.6 million. The significant improvement in our cash flow used in operations in fiscal 2002 is a result of managements increased focus on improved operating results and preserving our cash balance. Cash used in investing activities of $23.9 million was comprised of the purchase of investments in debt securities, net of maturities, of $16.1 million, purchases of property and equipment mainly computer hardware and computer networking equipment totaling $6.8 million, and $1.0 million used to acquire a business. As market interest rates declined throughout the fiscal year ended February 28, 2002, the Company used cash and cash equivalents to purchase fixed income debt securities to improve the yield on our investments. The $1.0 million used to acquire a business relates to cash paid in fiscal year 2002 for a business acquired just prior to the beginning of fiscal year 2002. Cash provided by financing activities of $2.5 million for the year ended February 28, 2002 was comprised of $36.0 million in proceeds from borrowings under our line of credit, net of $28.7 in repayments of the borrowings under our line of credit, $634,000 in proceeds from the sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan, and $2.6 million in proceeds from the exercise of common stock options. This was partially offset by $6.7 million used to purchase 200,000 share of treasury stock, $866,000 of notes receivable issued, and $402,000 in payments of capital lease obligations. 26 We have experienced a substantial increase in our operating expenses since our inception in connection with the growth of our operations, the development of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux technologies, the expansion of our services operation and our acquisition activity. Our capital requirements during the year ending February 28, 2004 will depend on numerous factors including the amount of resources we devote to: funding the development of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux solutions, such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS, ES and WS; accelerating the development of our systems management offerings; improving and extending our service offerings and the technologies used to deliver these offerings to our customers; pursuing strategic acquisitions and alliances; and making possible investments in businesses, products and technologies. We have made substantial progress in reducing the amount of cash required to fund our operations. In fiscal 2002 and 2001, we used $7.5 million and $39.6 million, respectively, to fund our operations. In fiscal 2003, we used only $755,000 in cash to fund our operations. Excluding payments made for restructuring costs expensed in prior periods, our adjusted cash flow provided by operations was $1.7 million in fiscal 2003. In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we used $5.4 million in cash in our operating activities. In the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2003, we generated $581,000, $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, in positive cash flows from our operating activities. We expect to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations during fiscal 2004. Given the significant improvement we have made from using cash to fund our operations to generating $4.6 million in positive cash flows during the last nine months of fiscal 2003, and the $292.3 million of cash and investments held at February 28, 2003, we do not anticipate the need to raise funds to fund our operations either through the sale of additional equity or through the issuance of debt for the foreseeable future. We believe that cash flow from operations will continue to improve; however, there can be no assurances that we will improve our cash flow from operations from the current rate or that such cash flows will be adequate to fund other investments or acquisitions that we may choose to make. We may choose to accelerate the expansion of our business from our current plans, which may require us to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through other financing means. There can be no assurances that any such financing would occur in amounts or on terms favorable to us, if at all. We have no off balance sheet financing arrangements and do not utilize any structured debt, special purpose or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. As of February 28, 2003, our principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under capital and operating leases. The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at February 28, 2003 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in thousands): Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Capital lease obligations $ 2,854 $ 1,350 $ 1,471 $ 33 $ Operating lease obligations 53,926 5,371 10,870 5,815 31,870 Total $ 56,780 $ 6,721 $ 12,341 $ 5,848 $ 31,870 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See discussion in NOTE 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 27 RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business Model We depend on the support of Linux developers not employed by us for improvements and advancement of our Red Hat Enterprise Linux technologies. We may not be able to release major product upgrades of Red Hat Enterprise Linux on a timely basis because the heart of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Linux kernel, is maintained by third parties. Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux kernel, and a small group of independent engineers are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Linux kernel. If this group of developers fails to further develop the Linux kernel or if Mr. Torvalds or prominent Linux developers who are members of this group and are currently employed by Red Hat, such as Alan Cox, David Miller or Stephen Tweedie, were to join one of our competitors or no longer work on the Linux kernel, we would have to either rely on another party to further develop the kernel or develop it ourselves. We cannot predict whether enhancements to the kernel would be available from reliable alternative sources. We could be forced to rely to a greater extent on our own development efforts, which would increase our development expenses and may delay our product release and upgrade schedules. In addition, any failure on the part of the kernel developers to further develop and enhance the kernel could stifle the development of additional Linux based applications. We depend on collaboration with a wide range of companies with diverse interests in developing and selling Red Hat Enterprise Linux. One of the appealing aspects of Red Hat Enterprise Linux to our business partners, such as Dell, HP, IBM, Intel, and Oracle, is the ability to suggest enhancements to the technology. It is not unusual for the needs of those business partners to be in conflict with each other. At the same time, we are dependent on the sales channels provided by these partners, some of which provide services that compete with our services, for the sale of Red Hat Enterprise Linux. We may not be able to satisfy all the requirements of these business partners, or be able to offer the same range of services in support of Red Hat Enterprise Linux as these business partners, and we may not be able to sufficiently incent their sales channels to promote Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Should we fail in any of these aspects we may not be able to expand our business and or increase our market share. The scarcity of availability of software applications for Linux based operating systems could prevent widespread commercial adoption of our products. Our products will not be able to gain widespread commercial adoption by the large enterprise until there are more third party enterprise software applications that have been migrated to operate on Linux based operating systems. These applications include databases, software development tools, enterprise middleware, such as messaging and file system technologies. We intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on Linux based operating systems by attracting third party developers to the Linux platform, by providing open source tools to create these applications and by maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support for third party developers. If we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not gain widespread commercial acceptance and we will not be able to maintain our product sales growth. We may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. We do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. Historically, different groups of open source software programmers have competed with each other to develop new technology. Typically, one of those groups develops the technology that becomes more widely used than that developed by others. If we adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products, and competing technology 28 becomes more widely used, the market appeal of our products may be reduced, which could harm our reputation, diminish the Red Hat brand and result in decreased revenue. There are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market. One of the enduring aspects of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for a competitor with greater resources to develop its own open source operating system solution, potentially reducing the demand for Red Hats solutions. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Condition We have incurred substantial net losses on a GAAP basis in the past. We have incurred net losses in seven of our previous eight fiscal years, including our most recent fiscal year ended February 28, 2003. While we have significantly reduced these losses and, we do not expect to incur significant losses in the future, we cannot be certain when we will achieve sustained profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. You should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as an indication of our future results. Due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We base our current and projected future expense levels in part on our estimates of future revenue. Our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. Our future operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to effectively attract additional enterprise customers and preserve relationships with current enterprise customers, which could adversely affect revenue. Historically, we focused our sales and marketing efforts on product sales to individuals. In late fiscal 2002, we began to focus the predominant portion of our sales and marketing efforts on expanding our enterprise customer base. To this end, we have invested extensively to attract enterprise customers. While we have been successful to date in acquiring large enterprise customers, if we are unsuccessful in gaining additional large enterprise customers in the future, it will adversely impact our future revenue growth. We may not be able to continue to attract capable management personnel. As we have built our management team over the past three years we have done so during a time of significant unemployment and downturn in the technology sector. This has given us the opportunity to attract highly capable management personnel. However, our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged if the technology sector rebounds and companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for these same personnel. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued services of a number of key officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Matthew J. Szulik, our Executive Vice President Engineering, Paul Cormier, 29 and our Chief Financial Officer, Kevin B. Thompson. The loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these people could seriously impede our success. Moreover, the loss of one or a group of our key employees, particularly to a competitor, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the Red Hat brand. We may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively with Unix operating systems providers, Microsoft, other established operating systems developers, software development tools developers and other service providers. In the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial resources and name recognition than we have. These competitors, which offer hardware independent multi user operating systems for Intel platforms and or UNIX based operating systems, include Microsoft, Novell, IBM, Sun Microsystems, Hewlett Packard, and Unisys. Some of these competitors may in the future, produce and market a competing open source operating system. As we increase our services offerings, we may face competition from larger and more capable companies that currently service and support the Linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly UNIX based operating systems, due to the fact that Linux and UNIX based operating systems share many common features. These companies, including IBM and Hewlett Packard, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and support on a more cost effective basis than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully with these current or potential competitors. If we fail to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. Our success depends on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry leading hardware manufacturers (such as Hewlett Packard, Dell, IBM, Fujitsu and others), distributors, software vendors (such as Oracle) and enterprise solutions providers. These relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to through our direct sales and marketing efforts. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. In addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. As a result, the companies with which we have strategic alliances are free to pursue alternative technologies and to develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. We may not be able to meet the operational and financial challenges that we will encounter as our international operations continue to expand. As we expand our international operations, we will face a number of additional challenges associated with the conduct of business overseas. For example: we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business; fluctuations in exchange rates may negatively affect our operating results; we have to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws; we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks overseas due to the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; export controls and times of crisis could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets; 30 changes in import/export duties and quotas could affect the competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability in some international markets could result in the forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets. Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty We could be prevented from selling or developing our products if the GNU General Public License and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable. The Linux kernel and the Red Hat Linux operating system have been developed and licensed under the GNU General Public License and similar open source licenses. These licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. We know of no circumstance under which these licenses have been challenged or interpreted in court. Accordingly, it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable in the event that someone were to file a claim asserting proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, would have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing our products. Our subscription based distribution model is unproven and may encounter customer resistance. The subscription agreement for Red Hat Enterprise Linux requires customers to agree to a subscription for Red Hats systems management services for each machine on which they deploy Red Hat Enterprise Linux. At the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customers right to redistribute Red Hat Enterprise Linux. While we believe this practice fully complies with the requirements of the GNU General Public License and while we have reviewed this practice with the Free Software Foundation, we may still encounter customer resistence to this distribution model. To the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, we may fail to meet our revenue objectives. Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by ourselves and our customers, errors have been and may continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. If errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital to eliminate them and yet may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all. Errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of Linux based operating systems and other open source software products. In addition, failures in our products could cause system failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. Although our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. These claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third party intellectual property rights particularly because our products are comprised of distinct software components many of which are developed by independent parties. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by 31 independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. It is further exacerbated by our lack of access to unpublished software patent applications, copyright registrations which fail to adequately disclose source code, and numerous issued software patents that are of dubious validity. Claims of infringement could require us to reengineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products. Defending infringement claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property, or the use of significant resources to defend against this type of claim, could place a significant strain on our financial resources and harm our reputation. Our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights. Our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks. The protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. Although we do not believe that we have suffered any material harm from misappropriation to date, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights. We have registered some of our trademarks in the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia and have other trademark applications pending in each of those regions. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the Red Hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock price continues to be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; new products or services offered by Red Hat or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions or trends in the Internet, Linux and software industries; changes in the economic performance and or market valuations of other Internet, Linux and software industries; announcements by ourselves or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of common stock; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for Internet related and technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In addition, broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, 32 could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk The primary objective of Red Hats investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains its portfolio of cash equivalents, short term and long term investments in a variety of highly rated fixed income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. The following table presents the fair value balances of the Companys cash equivalents and short term and long term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by year of expected maturity and average interest rates as of February 28, 2003 (in thousands): Year Ending February 29, 2004 February 28, 2005 February 28, 2006 February 28, 2007 February 29, 2008 Total Cash equivalents $ 45,250 $ 45,250 Average interest rate 1.05 % Investments $ 45,216 71,598 54,921 61,242 14,113 $ 247,090 Average interest rates 3.84 % 4.28 % 4.44 % 4.70 % 4.14 % Red Hat did not hold derivative financial instruments as of February 28, 2003, and has never held such investments in the past. Foreign Currency Risk Approximately 30.0% of the Companys fiscal 2003 revenues were generated by sales outside the United States. The Company is exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of the Companys non U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, and the revenues and expenses of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month the transactions occur. 33 
 
