FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20031022072230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma and Non-GAAP Financial Information and Exhibits
     ( c ) Exhibits
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure (furnished under Item 12, Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, October 22, 2003  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today third quarter 2003 sales of $230.4 million, an increase of 7 % over sales of $216.0 million in the third quarter of 2002. Sales for the quarter benefited from the positive effects of currency translation that contributed approximately 5% to the quarter's reported growth. Quarterly earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) were $0.29, compared to $0.29 for the third quarter in 2002. On a pro-forma basis, excluding an in-process R&D charge, E.P.S. were $0.33 for the quarter, an increase of 14% over the last year's third quarter E.P.S. of $0.29. Free cash flow for the quarter was approximately $34 million.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Growth in our HPLC business, driven by improved pharmaceutical spending in the U.S., highlighted our third quarter performance. This business improvement was somewhat offset by continued weakness in the proteomics and drug discovery markets affecting our mass spectrometry products. However, late in the quarter, we began customer shipments of the Quattro Premier marking our re-entry into the domestic high-end tandem quadrupole market. We are confident that our new Quattro Premier will accelerate growth of our worldwide market share in this resilient and growing product market."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its third quarter 2003 financial results conference call this morning, October 22, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to , choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available from today through October 28, 2003, similarly by webcast, and also by phone at 402-220-5317.
www.waters.info
Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies  high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), mass spectrometry (MS) and thermal analysis (TA). These markets account for $4.4 billion of the overall $20 billion analytical instrument market.
 
This release contains "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons including and without limitation: loss of market share through competition, introduction of competing products by other companies, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in the healthcare market and the pharmaceutical industry, changes in distribution of the Company's products, the short-term effect on sales and expenses as a result of the formerly announced combination of the Waters and Micromass sales, service and distribution organizations, and foreign exchange fluctuations. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this press release. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's estimates as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future.
 
 
The pro-forma income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies those items management has excluded as non-operational activities or transactions. Management feels these transactions are not indicative of understanding the ongoing operations of the business or its future outlook.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Free Cash Flow:
Waters defines free cash flow as the change in reported cash and restricted cash balances, plus or minus the change in reported debt, and adjusted for certain investing activities and unusual transactions.
Free cash flow in millions:
The free cash flow presented above is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above identifies those items included or excluded by management to measure cash from operations. While the Company may incur and pay litigation settlements on a recurring basis, the above payment is considered to be significant compared to prior transactions. Similarly, the other transactions set forth above are also not indicative of cash used or generated from operations in assessing the liquidity outlook for the business.


