FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20040727071906.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.   Financial Statements, Pro Forma and Non-GAAP Financial Information and Exhibit
(c) Exhibit
Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated July 27, 2004 for the quarter ended July 3, 2004.
Item 12.   Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 27, 2004, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended July 3, 2004. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, July 27, 2004  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today second quarter 2004 sales of $260.5 million, an increase of 12% over the $232.0 million in sales reported for the second quarter of 2003. This growth is comprised of 9% organic growth (prior to currency effects) and a 3% benefit from foreign exchange in the quarter. Earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the second quarter were $0.49 compared to $0.33 for the comparable period in 2003. On a pro-forma basis, excluding the benefit of a patent litigation settlement in 2004, E.P.S. were $0.40 compared to $0.33 in 2003.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Our second quarter results reflect continued strong demand from major pharmaceutical and industrial customers. Shipments for chromatography systems were below our expectations as we shifted most customer deliveries of our AcQuity UPLC systems to the third quarter to allow for additional manufacturing related testing. Customer excitement and demand for AcQuity continues to build and we plan full production shipments in August.
Our mass spectrometry business, with organic growth of 11%, continues to benefit from rapid expansion of our tandem quadrupole systems and we look forward to a second half 2004 benefit from innovative instruments introduced at the ASMS conference in June."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its second quarter 2004 financial results conference call this morning, July 27, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.info, choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available from today through August 3, 2004, similarly by webcast, and also by phone at 402-998-0666.
     Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies  high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), mass spectrometry (MS) and thermal analysis (TA). These markets account for $4.5  $5.0 billion of the overall $20+ billion analytical instrument market.
 
This release contains "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements discussed in this release for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, shipments of new product introductions expected in the upcoming quarters such as AcQuity UPLC and tandem quadrupole systems, loss of market share through competition, introduction of competing products by other companies, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in the healthcare market and the pharmaceutical industry, changes in distribution of the Company's products, service and distribution organizations, and foreign exchange fluctuations. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this press release. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's estimates as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future.
 
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies those items management has excluded as non-operational activities or transactions. Management feels these transactions are not indicative of understanding the ongoing operations of the business or its future outlook.


