FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20041026072419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 26, 2004, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended October 2, 2004. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, October 26, 2004  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today third quarter 2004 sales of $264.8 million, an increase of 15% over the $230.4 million in sales reported for the third quarter of 2003. This quarterly growth is comprised of 11% growth prior to currency effects and a 4% benefit from foreign exchange. Earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the third quarter 2004 were $0.42 compared to $0.29 for the comparable period in 2003. E.P.S. for the third quarter of 2004 benefited from an improved and sustainable 1% decrease in the Company's full year effective tax rate favorably impacting E.P.S. by approximately $ 0.01 this quarter. On a pro-forma basis, excluding a charge for expensed in-process research and development incurred in the third quarter of 2003 associated with an acquisition, E.P.S. grew 27% from $0.33 to an as reported $0.42 for the third quarter of 2004.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Our third quarter results reflect continued strong demand from major pharmaceutical and industrial customers in the United States and Asia for all our major product lines and an improvement in business conditions in Europe. Overall, shipments were within our range of expectations and benefited from ACQUITY related system sales in the third quarter. Customer excitement and demand for ACQUITY continues to build and installations have proceeded smoothly."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its third quarter 2004 financial results conference call this morning, October 26, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.info, choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available from today through November 2, 2004, similarly by webcast, and also by phone at 402-530-7928.
Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies  high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), mass
 
spectrometry (MS) and thermal analysis (TA). These markets account for $4.5 - $5.0 billion of the overall $20+ billion analytical instrument market.
This release contains "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements discussed in this release for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, shipments of new product introductions expected in the upcoming quarters such as ACQUITY UPLC and tandem quadrupole systems, loss of market share through competition, introduction of competing products by other companies, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in the healthcare market and the pharmaceutical industry, changes in distribution of the Company's products, service and distribution organizations, and foreign exchange fluctuations. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this press release. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's estimates as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future.
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies those items management has excluded as non-operational activities or transactions. Management feels these transactions are not indicative of understanding the ongoing operations of the business or its future outlook.
 


