FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20050726071537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 26, 2005, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended July 2, 2005. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, July 26, 2005  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today second quarter 2005 sales of $284.6 million, an increase of 9% over sales of $260.5 million in the second quarter of 2004 with a foreign currency translation benefit accounting for approximately 1% of that growth. Quarterly earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) were $0.46, compared to $0.49 for the second quarter in 2004. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the benefit of a patent litigation settlement in the second quarter of 2004, adjusted E.P.S. grew 15% to $0.46 in the second quarter of 2005 from $0.40 in the second quarter of 2004.
Through the first six months of 2005 reported sales for the Company were $552.9 million, a 7% increase over 2004 first half-year sales of $515.6 million with a foreign currency benefit accounting for approximately 1% of that growth. E.P.S. through the first six months of 2005 were $0.84 compared to $0.81 for the comparable period in 2004. On a non-GAAP basis and including the adjustments in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 9% in the first six months of 2005 from $0.77 in 2004 to $0.84 in 2005.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Our business in Europe and overall sales to pharmaceutical accounts improved during the second quarter. Shipments of ACQUITY UPLC and QTof Premier continued to gain traction with strong sequential growth compared to the first quarter 2005 sales. We are optimistic that this positive sales momentum will continue into the second half of the year. We also believe that despite a less favorable foreign currency environment, the strength of our product portfolio in combination with improving market demand will allow us to deliver profitable sales growth in 2005."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its second quarter 2005 financial results conference call this morning, July 26, 2005 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to , choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through August 2, 2005, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 402-220-9682.
www.waters.info
Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies - - liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. These markets account for $4.5   $5.0 billion of the overall $20 + billion analytical instrument market.
 
This release contains "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons including and without limitation: fluctuations in capital expenditures by our customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies, introduction of competing products, such as improved research-grade mass spectrometers, by other companies, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in distribution of the Company's products, changes in the healthcare market and the pharmaceutical industry, loss of market share through competition, potential product liability or other claims against the Company as a result of the use of its products, risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially adversely affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this press release. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's estimates as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future.
 
 
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. Management feels these transactions are not indicative of understanding the ongoing operations of the business or its future outlook.


