FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20060725071603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)      July 25, 2006
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 25, 2006, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended July 1, 2006. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated July 25, 2006 for the quarter ended July 1, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, July 25, 2006  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today second quarter 2006 sales of $302 million, an increase of 6% over sales of $285 million in the second quarter of 2005. In the quarter, the effects of foreign currency translation did not positively or negatively affect this sales growth rate. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the second quarter were $0.46, compared to $0.46 for the second quarter in 2005. On a non-GAAP basis, including the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 15% to $0.53 in the second quarter of 2006 from $0.46 in the second quarter of 2005.
Through the first six months of 2006, sales for the Company were $592 million, a 7% increase over sales in the first six months of 2005 of $553 million. Without effects of foreign currency translation, the Company's organic sales growth rate was 9% as currency translation reduced its reported sales growth rate by approximately 2%. E.P.S. through the first six months of 2006 were $0.87 compared to $0.84 for the comparable period in 2005. On a non-GAAP basis and including adjustments on the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 21% in the first six months of 2006 to $1.03 in 2006 from $0.85 in 2005.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Our results in the second quarter indicate a continuation of the trends we experienced earlier this year, including: continued expansion of businesses in China and India, strong industrial spending and growing demand for ACQUITY UPLC technology. In the quarter, we also introduced exciting new mass spectrometry instruments that we will begin shipping in the second half of 2006. We were very encouraged by the excitement that these new systems generated at the ASMS conference in late May and feel that the powerful combination of ACQUITY UPLC and new Waters mass spectrometry technologies will help to further stimulate demand as we look to the remainder of 2006 and beyond."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its second quarter 2006 financial results conference call this morning, July 25, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to , choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through August 1, 2006, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 203-369-0188.
www.waters.info
Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies  liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. These markets account for approximately $5.0 billion of the overall $20  $25 billion analytical instrument market.
 
This release contains "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies, regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation, introduction of competing products by other companies, such as improved research-grade mass spectrometers, and/or higher speed and/or more sensitive liquid chromatographs, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in distribution of the Company's products, changes in the healthcare market and the pharmaceutical industry, loss of market share through competition, potential product liability or other claims against the Company as a result of the use of its products, risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, the short-term impact to 2006 operating results from cost savings initiatives the Company implemented in February 2006, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 1, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. As a result of the adoption of FAS 123(R), management has excluded the stock-based compensation cost from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts to enable management and investors to perform a meaningful comparison of the Company's operating results to the prior period. In the prior period, the Company's consolidated statements of operations were not required to include the expense associated with stock-based compensation and now the Company must include the expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Management has excluded the restructuring charges from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these charges are not directly related to ongoing operations thereby providing investors with information that helps to compare ongoing operating performance.
 


