FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20070424071442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)      April 24, 2007
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 24, 2007, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated April 24, 2007 for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1   
For Immediate Release
Contact:    Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, April 24, 2007  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today first quarter 2007 sales of $331 million, an increase of 14% over sales of $290 million in the first quarter of 2006. Foreign currency translation contributed 3% to this reported sales growth rate. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the first quarter were $0.54, compared to $0.42 for the first quarter in 2006. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding a restructuring charge in the base period and the exclusion of purchased intangible amortization in both periods as noted in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 22% to $0.56 in the first quarter of 2007 from $0.46 in the first quarter of 2006.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "The positive business momentum that we experienced in 2006 continued into the first quarter of 2007 and this strong start for 2007 is especially encouraging as the growth was generally broad-based and indicative of a very positive response to our newly introduced instrument systems and consumable products."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its first quarter 2007 financial results conference call this morning, April 24, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to , choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through May 1, 2007, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 866-429-0575.
www.waters.info
Waters Corporation holds worldwide leading positions in three complementary analytical technologies - - liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, and thermal analysis. These markets account for approximately $5.0 billion of the estimated $20  $25 billion analytical instrumentation market.
 
     This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies, regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation, introduction of competing products by other companies, such as improved research-grade mass spectrometers, and/or higher speed and/or more sensitive liquid chromatographs, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in distribution of the Company's products, risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results . Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. Management has excluded the restructuring charges and purchased intangibles amortization from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these charges are not directly related to ongoing operations thereby providing investors with information that helps to compare ongoing operating performance.


