FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20070124071527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)      January 24, 2007
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 24, 2007, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated January 24, 2007 for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, January 24, 2007  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported fourth quarter 2006 sales of $387 million, an increase of 16% over sales of $332 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. In the quarter, foreign currency translation contributed 3% to the Company's sales growth rate. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the fourth quarter were $0.78, compared to $0.69 for the fourth quarter in 2005. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 19% to $0.87 in the fourth quarter of 2006 from $0.73 in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Full year 2006 sales for the Company were $1.28 billion, an 11% increase over sales in 2005 of $1.16 billion. E.P.S. for 2006 were $2.13 compared to $1.74 for 2005. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 22% to $2.44 in 2006 from $2.00 in 2005.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Improved pharmaceutical demand, continued growth in our overseas' markets and strong sales growth by our TA Instruments Division all contributed nicely to the quarter's results. In addition, we continued to benefit from rapid uptake of new instrument systems and recently introduced mass spectrometry technologies."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its fourth quarter 2006 financial results conference call this morning, January 24, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to , choose Investor Relations and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through January 31, 2007 at midnight eastern time, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 203-369-3463.
www.waters.info
Waters Corporation is among leading companies offering instrumentation, software, service and consumable products for liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. These markets account for approximately $5.0 billion of the overall $20+ billion analytical instrument market.
 
This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in any forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies, regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation, introduction of competing products by other companies, such as improved research-grade mass spectrometers, and/or higher speed and/or more sensitive liquid chromatographs, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in distribution of the Company's products, risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions particularly involving claims for the infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. Any forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
 
The adjusted income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. As a result of the adoption of FAS 123(R), management has excluded the stock-based compensation cost from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts to enable management and investors to perform a meaningful comparison of the Company's operating results to the prior period. In the prior period, the Company's consolidated statements of operations were not required to include the expense associated with stock-based compensation and now the Company must include the expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Management has excluded the litigation provisions, restructuring charges and other expenses from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these charges are not directly related to ongoing operations thereby providing investors with information that helps to compare ongoing operating performance.


