FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20080229084458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 4.02. Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review.
(a) The Company classified certain marketable securities as cash and cash equivalents on each of its fiscal 2007 quarterly unaudited consolidated balance sheets that should instead have been classified as short-term investments, based on the length of time from original purchase date to the maturity date. On February 27, 2008, the Company and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company concluded that the previously issued quarterly unaudited financial statements as of March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 29, 2007 and for the periods then ended as included in the Company's 2007 Forms 10-Q should be restated and no longer relied upon because of the misclassification on the unaudited consolidated balance sheet described above, which also had an impact on the unaudited consolidated statements of cash flows. This change in classification does not affect the unaudited consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, this change in classification has no effect on previously reported current assets, total assets, stockholders' equity, cash flows from operating activities or cash flows from financing activities. This change in classification does not have a material impact on any of the Company's consolidated financial statements issued prior to 2007. The Company intends to restate the affected unaudited consolidated financial information for each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2007 in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. The following tables set forth the effects of this change in classification for each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2007 (in thousands).
 
The change of classification of these amounts was a result of an internal control that was not operating effectively for the first three quarters of 2007. The same internal control did operate effectively in the fourth quarter of 2007 and ultimately detected the change in classification required to the first three quarters of 2007.
An authorized officer of the Company has discussed the matters disclosed in this filing with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm.
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


