FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20091027071518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 27, 2009, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended October 3, 2009. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated October 27, 2009 for the quarter ended October 3, 2009.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, October 27, 2009  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today third quarter 2009 sales of $374 million, a decrease of 3% over sales of $386 million in the third quarter of 2008. These quarterly sales include an adverse foreign currency translation impact of approximately 1%. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the third quarter were $0.79, compared to $0.71 for the third quarter in 2008. On a non-GAAP basis, E.P.S. were up 3% to $0.81 in the third quarter of 2009 from $0.79 in the third quarter of 2008. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP E.P.S. is attached.
Through the first nine months of 2009, sales for the Company were $1,070 million, a decrease of 8% in comparison to sales of $1,157 million in the first nine months of 2008. Foreign currency translation contributed negatively to sales growth during the first nine months of 2009 and reduced sales by 4%. E.P.S. for the first nine months of 2009 were $2.26 compared to $2.21 for the comparable period in 2008. On a non-GAAP basis and including adjustments on the attached reconciliation, E.P.S grew 4% in the first nine months of 2009 to $2.33 from $2.24 in 2008.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Business trends in the third quarter suggest a stabilization of demand by our major end markets. Customer interest in our new products is encouraging and indicates that research-related spending may benefit our future results. Additionally, our focus on expense and balance sheet management is reflected in the third quarter's financial results, including excellent cash flow generation in the quarter."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its third quarter 2009 financial results conference call this morning, October 27, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.com, choose "Investor" and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through November 3, 2009, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 203-369-1708.
:
About Waters Corporation
Waters Corporation creates business advantage for laboratory-dependent organizations by delivering practical and sustainable innovation to enable significant advancements in such areas as healthcare delivery, environmental management, food safety, and water quality worldwide.
 
Pioneering a connected portfolio of separations science, laboratory information management, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis, Waters technology breakthroughs and laboratory solutions provide an enduring platform for customer success.
With revenue of $1.58 billion in 2008 and 5,000 employees, Waters is driving scientific discovery and operational excellence for customers worldwide.
This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, the impact on demand among the Company's various market sectors from current economic difficulties and possible recession; the impact of changes in accounting principles and practices or tax rates; shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates; the ability to access capital in volatile market conditions; the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies; regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation; introduction of competing products by other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers; regulatory obstacles to new product introductions; lack of acceptance of new products; other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers; changes in distribution of the Company's products; risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights; and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 4, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
 
The adjusted net income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. Management has excluded the purchased intangibles amortization, the restructuring charge, the lease termination costs, the acquisition related costs, the tax impact of restructuring certain legal entities and the adjustment for out-of-period errors and the related tax effects from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these items are not directly related to ongoing operations, thereby providing investors with information that helps to compare ongoing operating performance.
 


