FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20100513102624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On May 11, 2010, the Board of Directors voted to approve an amendment to the first paragraph of Article I, Section 7 of the Amended and Restated By-laws of the Corporation to make a conforming change, as follows:
"SECTION 7. VOTING. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of the capital stock of the Corporation registered in the name of such stockholder upon the books of the Corporation. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. When directed by the presiding officer or upon the demand of any stockholder, the vote upon any matter before a meeting of stockholders shall be by ballot. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, Directors shall be elected as specified in Article II, Section 1(B) of these Bylaws and, whenever any corporate action, other than the election of Directors is to be taken, it shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon."
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
     The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders on May 11, 2010 are as follows.
PROPOSAL 1.    ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
PROPOSAL 2.    RATIFICATION OF SELECTION OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


