FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20100126071517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 26, 2010, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1     Waters Corporation press release dated January 26, 2010 for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, January 26, 2010  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported fourth quarter 2009 sales of $429 million, an increase of 3% from sales of $418 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. In the quarter, foreign currency translation increased sales growth rate by 4% and on a currency neutral basis, sales decreased by 1% in comparison to the prior year's fourth quarter sales. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the fourth quarter were $1.08, compared to $1.01 for the fourth quarter of 2008. On a non-GAAP basis, including the adjustments in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 5% to $1.12 from $1.07 in the fourth quarter of 2008.
For the full year, sales for the Company were $1.50 billion, a decrease of 5% from sales of $1.58 billion in 2008. This decrease in sales includes the effects of foreign currency translation which reduced sales by 2%. E.P.S. for 2009 were $3.34 compared to $3.21 in 2008. On a non-GAAP basis, including adjustments in the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 5% to $3.45 from $3.30 in 2008.
Commenting on the Company's performance, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "In 2009, Waters faced a most challenging market environment as a steep economic slowdown and volatile capital markets combined to depress demand for laboratory instrumentation and supplies. However, through this difficult time, we continued to invest in new product development, support our customer base and manage our expenses prudently. As a result of these efforts, we were able to grow our earnings and generate strong cash flow while bringing exciting new products to market."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its fourth quarter 2009 financial results conference call this morning, January 26, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.com, choose "Investor Relations" and click on the "Live Webcast". A replay will be available through February 2, 2010 at midnight eastern time, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 203-369-1023.
This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding expected financial results, future growth and customer demand that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans",
 
"expects", "intends", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, the impact on demand among the Company's various market sectors from current economic difficulties and possible recession, the impact of changes in accounting principles and practices or tax rates, shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates, the ability to access capital in volatile market conditions, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies, regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation, introduction of competing products by other companies, and loss of market share, pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers, regulatory obstacles to new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products, other changes in the demands of the Company's healthcare and pharmaceutical company customers, changes in distribution of the Company's products, risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 3, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
The adjusted net income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions, net of the effective statutory tax rates applicable in the respective country effected. Management has excluded the purchased intangibles amortization, the restructuring charge, the lease termination costs, the acquisition related costs, the tax impact of restructuring certain legal entities, the adjustment for out-of-period errors and the related tax effects and the litigation provision from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these items are not directly related to ongoing operations, thereby providing investors with information that helps to compare ongoing operating performance.


