FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20111025073010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 25, 2011, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended October 1, 2011. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated October 25, 2011 for the quarter ended October 1, 2011.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, October 25, 2011  Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today third quarter 2011 sales of $455 million, an increase of 13% over sales of $401 million in the third quarter of 2010. These quarterly sales include 4% of foreign currency translation benefit. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the third quarter were $1.10 compared to $1.02 for the third quarter in 2010. On a non-GAAP basis, E.P.S. were up 16% to $1.14 in the third quarter of 2011 from $0.98 in the third quarter of 2010. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP E.P.S. is attached.
Through the first nine months of 2011, sales for the Company were $1,330 million, an increase of 15% in comparison to sales of $1,160 million in the first nine months of 2010. Foreign currency translation contributed positively to sales growth during the first nine months of 2011 and increased sales by 5%. E.P.S. for the first nine months of 2011 were $3.18 compared to $2.71 for the comparable period in 2010. On a non-GAAP basis and including adjustments on the attached reconciliation, E.P.S grew 20% in the first nine months of 2011 to $3.26 from $2.72 in 2010.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Our sales growth in the third quarter was driven by new instrument systems including ACQUITY H-Class UPLC, UPLC-MS solutions and strong TA Instruments product shipments. In addition, our growth was balanced geographically and across our key customer groupings."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its third quarter 2011 financial results conference call this morning, October 25, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.com, choose "Investor" and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through November 1, 2011, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 402-220-9741.
:
About Waters Corporation
For over 50 years, Waters Corporation (NYSE/) has created business advantages for laboratory-dependent organizations by delivering practical and sustainable innovation to enable significant advancements in such areas as healthcare delivery, environmental management, food safety, and water quality worldwide.
WAT
 
Pioneering a connected portfolio of separations science, laboratory information management, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis, Waters technology breakthroughs and laboratory solutions provide an enduring platform for customer success.
With revenue of $1.64 billion in 2010 and 5,400 employees, Waters is driving scientific discovery and operational excellence for customers worldwide.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events, including statements regarding customer acceptance of our products, expansion of our business in Asia and spending by certain end-markets that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "suggests", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, the impact on demand among the Company's various market sectors from economic, sovereign and political uncertainties; increased regulatory burdens as the Company's business evolves, especially with respect to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, among others; shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates; the outcome of tax examinations or changes in respective country legislation affecting the Company's effective tax rate; the ability to access capital and maintain liquidity in volatile financial market conditions; fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies; the ability to sustain and enhance service and consumable demand from the Company's installed base of instruments; regulatory and/or administrative obstacles to the timely completion of purchase order documentation; introduction of competing products by other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers; regulatory, economic and competitive obstacles to new product introductions; other changes in demand from the effect of mergers and acquisitions by the Company's customers; environmental and logistical obstacles affecting the distribution of products; risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights; the impact of changes in accounting principles and practices; and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 2, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's
 
estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
The adjusted net income per diluted share presented above is used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The above reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions, net of the effective applicable statutory tax rates. Management has excluded the purchased intangibles amortization, restructuring costs, asset impairments, acquisition-related costs, one-time tax benefits, reversal of income tax reserves upon audit settlement and non-income tax audit settlement from its non-GAAP adjusted amounts since management believes that these items are not directly related to ongoing operations, thereby providing management and investors with information that may help them to compare ongoing operating performance.


