FILE:WAT/WAT-8K-20120724073118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2012, Waters Corporation announced its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Waters Corporation press release dated July 24, 2012 for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Gene Cassis, Vice President of Investor Relations, 508-482-2349
Milford, Massachusetts, July 24, 2012 - Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) reported today second quarter 2012 sales of $451 million, an increase of 1% over sales of $448 million in the second quarter of 2011. Foreign currency translation decreased sales growth by 3%. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share (E.P.S.) for the second quarter were $1.09 compared to $1.07 for the second quarter in 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, E.P.S. were up 8% to $1.17 in the second quarter of 2012 from $1.08 in the second quarter of 2011. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP E.P.S. is attached.
Through the first six months of 2012, sales for the Company were $872 million, slightly less than sales of $875 million in the first six months of 2011. Foreign currency translation decreased sales growth during the first half of 2012 by 2%. E.P.S. for the first six months of 2012 were $2.08 compared to $2.09 for the comparable period in 2011. On a non-GAAP basis and including adjustments on the attached reconciliation, E.P.S. grew 2% in the first six months of 2012 to $2.17 from $2.12 in 2011.
Commenting on the quarter, Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Operational efficiency allowed us to achieve our profitability objectives in light of challenging market conditions associated with a generally weaker global economic environment."
As communicated in a prior press release, Waters Corporation will webcast its second quarter 2012 financial results conference call this morning, July 24, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. To listen to the call, connect to www.waters.com, choose "Investors" and click on the Live Webcast. A replay of the call will be available through July 31, 2012, similarly by webcast and also by phone at 402-220-5218.
:
About Waters Corporation
For over 50 years, Waters Corporation (NYSE/WAT) has created business advantages for laboratory-dependent organizations by delivering practical and sustainable innovation to enable significant advancements in such areas as healthcare delivery, environmental management, food safety, and water quality worldwide.
Pioneering a connected portfolio of separations science, laboratory information management, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis, Waters technology breakthroughs and laboratory solutions provide an enduring platform for customer success.
With revenue of $1.85 billion in 2011 and 5,700 employees, Waters is driving scientific discovery and operational excellence for customers worldwide.
This release may contain "forward-looking" statements regarding future results and events. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words, "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "expects", "intends", "suggests", "appears", "estimates", "projects", and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements within this release for a variety of reasons, including and without limitation, the impact on demand among the Company's various market sectors from economic, sovereign and political uncertainties; increased regulatory burdens as the Company's business evolves, especially with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, among others; shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates; the outcome of tax examinations or changes in respective country legislation affecting the Company's effective tax rate; the ability to access capital, maintain liquidity and service our debt in volatile market conditions, particularly in the U.S., as a large portion of the Company's cash is held and operating cash flows are generated outside the U.S.; fluctuations in expenditures by the Company's customers, in particular large pharmaceutical companies; introduction of competing products by other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices from competitors and/or customers; regulatory, economic and competitive obstacles to new product introductions; other changes in demand from the effect of mergers and acquisitions by the Company's customers; environmental and logistical obstacles affecting the distribution of products; risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights; and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially affecting translation of the Company's future non-U.S. operating results. Such factors and others are discussed more fully in the section entitled "Risk Factors" of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which "Risk Factors" discussion is incorporated by reference in this release. The forward-looking statements included in this release represent the Company's estimates or views as of the date of this release report and should not be relied upon as representing the Company's estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
 
The 2012 and 2011 adjusted amounts presented below are used by the management of the Company to measure operating performance with prior periods and forecasts and are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company believes that the use of Non-GAAP measures, such as Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (E.P.S.) and Non-GAAP Operating Income, help management and investors gain a better understanding of our core operating results and future prospects, and is consistent with how management measures compensation and forecasts the Company's performance. The reconciliation identifies items management has excluded as non-operational transactions. Management has excluded the following items:
 
 
 
 
 


