FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20030722094639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9.         Regulation FD Disclosure (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition").
 
On July 22, 2003, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
In accordance with the procedural guidance in SEC Release No. 33-8216, the information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto is being furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" rather than under "Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition." The information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 22, 2003
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Investors: Ian Bailey/Kirin Smith
Press: Brian Maddox/Scot Hoffman
FD Morgen-Walke
212-850-5600
shoffman@fdmw.com
 
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  July 22, 2003  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (Nasdaq: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003.
 
Highlights for the second quarter include:
 
 
 
 
Revenue for the second quarter increased to $87.4 million, up 17 percent from $74.5 million in the first quarter of 2003, and up 61 percent from $54.4 million in the second quarter of 2002. As previously announced, on April 1, 2003 Cognizant closed its acquisition of Aces, a specialist in CRM solutions. Now fully integrated with Cognizant's operations, Aces accounted for $2.3 million of revenue during the quarter. Net income for the second quarter increased to $13.5 million, or $0.20 per diluted share compared to $8.6 million, or $0.14 per diluted share (on a split-adjusted basis) in the second quarter of 2002. Operating margin for the quarter was 19.6%, compared to 19.5% in the first quarter of 2003 and 19.7% in the second quarter of 2002.
 
"Our solid second quarter results reflect Cognizant's strong position as a leader in the fast growing offshore services market," said Kumar Mahadeva, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Building on our track record of effective execution, we continue to win and ramp-up strategic clients who look to Cognizant to help drive bottom-line results through offshore outsourcing. Our fourth generation delivery model helps companies to drastically cut their IT and business process costs while aligning their IT portfolios with business needs. We have seen strong demand across all our verticals, with financial services and healthcare performing particularly well. We further stepped up discretionary investment in our sales and marketing organization which will continue to be a key strategic advantage for Cognizant as the industry evolves and grows."
"Our record of strong repeat business continues with approximately 83% of our revenue from clients who have been working with us for at least a year," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer. "As we continue to strengthen and grow relationships with our clients, we have developed a strong recurring revenue base which gives us greater visibility and confidence in our future."
 
Conference Call
 
Cognizant will host a conference call on July 22, at 10:00 AM. (EST) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial 800-953-6584 domestic and 706-645-0156 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling 800-642-1687 for domestic callers and 706-645-9291 for international callers and entering "1555402" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (EST) on July 29, 2003.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
 
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
 
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (Nasdaq: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
 
Cognizant's 6,700 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and Ireland, and onsite client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor and was recently ranked as the top information technology company in Forbes' 200 Best Small Companies in America and in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Further information about Cognizant can be found at http://www.cognizant.com.
 
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Cognizant believes the expectations contained in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove correct. This information may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause or contribute to differences include, but are not limited to: (i) the significant fluctuations of Cognizant's quarterly operating results caused by a variety of factors, many of which are not within Cognizant's control, including (a) the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of application design, development and maintenance projects, (b) delays in the performance of projects, (c) the accuracy of estimates of costs, resources and time to complete projects, (d) seasonal patterns of Cognizant's services required by customers, (e) levels of market acceptance for Cognizant's services, (f) potential adverse impacts of new tax legislation, and (g) the hiring of additional staff; (ii) changes in Cognizant's billing and employee utilization rates; (iii) Cognizant's ability to manage its growth effectively, which will require Cognizant (a) to increase the number of its personnel, particularly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel, (b) to find suitable acquisition candidates to support geographic expansion, and (c) to continue to develop and improve its operational, financial, communications and other internal systems, in the United States, India and Europe; (iv) Cognizant's reliance on key customers and large projects; (v) the highly competitive nature of the markets for Cognizant's services; (vi) Cognizant's ability to successfully address the continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer objectives and preferences; (vii) Cognizant's reliance on the continued services of its key executive officers and leading technical personnel; (viii) Cognizant's ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled
employees in the future; (ix) Cognizant's ability to protect its intellectual property rights; (x) the concentration of Cognizant's operations in India and the related geo-political risks of local and cross-border conflicts; (xi) terrorist activity, the threat of terrorist activity, and responses to and results of terrorist activity and threats, including, but not limited to, effects, domestically and/or internationally, on Cognizant, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, financial markets and general economic conditions; (xii) the effects, domestically and/or internationally, on Cognizant, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, financial markets and general economic conditions arising from hostilities involving the United States in Iraq or elsewhere; (xiii) a breach of the Distribution Agreement entered into between the Company and IMS Health; (xiv) a change in the Company's intent to repatriate undistributed earnings; and (xv) general economic conditions. Such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties; consequently, actual transactions and results may differ materially from those expressed or implied thereby.
 
Additional information on factors that may affect the business and financial results of the companies can be found in filings of the companies made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


