FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20041026082437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 26, 2004, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 26, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing plans to further expand the Company's India-based facilities and related expenditures. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.*
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
     * The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 26, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
Teaneck, NJ  October 26, 2004  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Highlights for the third quarter include:
Revenue for the third quarter increased to $155.4 million, up 12% from $138.7 million in the second quarter of 2004, and up 58% from $98.1 million in the third quarter of 2003. Net income for the third quarter increased to $26.1 million, or $0.18 per diluted share compared to $16.0 million or $0.12 per diluted share (on a split-adjusted basis) in the third quarter of 2003. Operating margin for the quarter increased to 19.9%, compared to 19.6% in the third quarter of 2003. In a separate release issued today, Cognizant also announced a further expansion of its planned India construction program to meet the continuing strong demand for its offshore services from new and existing clients.
"Our strong third-quarter financial results were marked by balanced growth across our key verticals, continued strength in our applications management business, and sustained growth in discretionary development spending," said Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "During the quarter we also saw growing demand from existing customers for our infrastructure services capabilities, where Cognizant remotely manages its clients' mission critical IT infrastructure. Our business-driven services, highly skilled employees, strong execution and solid customer satisfaction reinforce our position among the top providers of offshore IT outsourcing services. Additionally, our ongoing focus on strengthening and deepening our relationships with existing clients while maintaining our strong win rate has further enhanced our competitive position and provides a solid foundation for our continuing success in the future."
 
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following updated guidance:
2004 Outlook
"In addition to our strong revenue and margin performance during the quarter, we are particularly pleased with our cash flow metrics, including the generation of over $41 million of cash from operations," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "Our pipeline of new business remains strong as the interest level and demand from prospective customers continues to increase in both North America and Europe. Additionally, we continue to have significant visibility due to the high level of recurring revenue from our long-term customer relationships. As a result of our ongoing investment in infrastructure and the recruitment and training of our highly skilled staff, we believe that Cognizant is well positioned for strong performance for the remainder of this year and going into 2005."
Cognizant will host a conference call on October 26th, at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestic and (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, www.cognizant.com. Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at www.cognizant.com or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "1330076" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on November 2, 2004.
Conference Call
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant's more than 14,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India, and onsite client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named Forbes' Best Small Company in America for the second consecutive year, and ranked as the top information technology company in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Further information about Cognizant can be found at http://www.cognizant.com.
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K
 
and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Teaneck, NJ  October 26, 2004  Cognizant (Nasdaq: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced plans to further expand the Company's India-based Techno-complex capacity in Chennai, Pune, Calcutta and Bangalore. The Company also announced that it will construct a new training academy in Chennai.
Today's announced plan supersedes the Company's facility investment plan announced in December 2003. The new facilities will add approximately 830,000 square feet of space to house approximately 9,000 employees, as well as approximately 100,000 square feet of educational space for use by Cognizant's training academy.
Cognizant expects to spend approximately $76 million on the expanded construction program and land purchases, an increase of approximately $34 million compared to the expansion program announced in December 2003.
"Clients have been ramping up their offshore programs, including application development and maintenance projects, even more rapidly than the already high levels we had anticipated," said Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "The increasing number of large organizations deciding to initiate outsourcing is resulting in higher demand for our industry leading services. Our sustained high growth rate in revenue and headcount has not only provided the opportunity for us to begin the second phase of building our additional facilities, but for us to now expand those already substantial plans."
"Last November, we completed the first phase of facility construction," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "That initial program provided space for close to 6,000 employees and was completed on-time and on-budget. Phase Two was launched earlier this year with plans to construct approximately 600,000 square feet of development space. Due to our robust growth this year, we saw the requirement to further expand our capacity in Chennai, Pune, Calcutta and Bangalore, as well as
 
construct a major training academy in Chennai. In addition, Cognizant will continue to add leased facilities to supplement our expanded construction program."
Photos of Cognizant's recently completed buildings in India are available in the "About Us" section of Cognizant's website at www.cognizant.com.
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant (Nasdaq: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
Cognizant's more than 14,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India, and onsite client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named Forbes' Best Small Company in America for the second consecutive year, and ranked as the top information technology company in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Further information about Cognizant can be found at http://www.cognizant.com.
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


