FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20051031083028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 31, 2005, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 31, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  October 31, 2005  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
 
 
Highlights  Third Quarter 2005
 
Revenue for the third quarter increased to $235.5 million, up 52% from $155.4 million in the third quarter of 2004. Net income for the third quarter increased to $40.6 million, or $0.28 per diluted share compared to $26.1 million or $0.18 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004. Operating margin for the quarter was 20.0%, in line with operating margin achieved in the third quarter of 2004.
 
"We are pleased to report another record quarter of sustained industry-leading growth for Cognizant," commented Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "We again secured significant client wins during the third quarter, adding 31 new clients while expanding our relationships with existing strategic customers. Our performance is a testament to the caliber of our industry expertise and depth of service offerings, and most importantly, our ability to translate our skill set into tangible business value for our clients. We are embedding ourselves even more deeply in our key vertical domains, as
 
 
particularly evidenced by 14% sequential growth in revenue from financial services and insurance customers and an 18% sequential increase in revenue from our healthcare and life sciences segment. I am confident we will continue to meet the growing demand for industry expertise and strategic solutions, and are well positioned to deliver consistent growth for the Company and significant value for our shareholders moving forward."
 
 
2005 Outlook  Fourth Quarter & Full Year
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
"Cognizant's solid revenue and EPS growth reflect the Company's consistent ability to parlay its broad-based industry expertise and service offerings into outstanding financial performance," remarked Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer. "During the third quarter, we also maintained robust operating margins of 20%  at the high end of our target range  and managed our Balance Sheet to generate significant free cash. We continued to aggressively invest in our highly skilled employee base, adding over 3,100 employees in the quarter to strengthen our domain and broad-based technology expertise. Based on our third quarter performance and the strong demand for our services, we have raised our revenue and earnings expectations for full year 2005." Coburn added, "we are in the process of completing the 2006 planning process with our clients and accounts teams, and based on initial feedback, we are highly encouraged about our prospects for continued industry-leading growth in 2006."
 
 
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call today, October 31st, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "7896348" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on November 7, 2005.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
 
 
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management, and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
 
Cognizant's more than 23,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and onsite client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named one of Forbes' Best Small Companies in
 
 
America for the fourth consecutive year, and ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Cognizant is a member of the Nasdaq-100 index and further information about Cognizant can be found at www.cognizant.com.
 
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 


