FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20050728082454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 28, 2005, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 28, 2005

 
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  July 28, 2005  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.
 
Highlights  Second Quarter 2005
 
 
Revenue for the second quarter increased to $211.7 million, up 53% from $138.7 million in the second quarter of 2004. Net income for the second quarter increased to $36.0 million, or $0.25 per diluted share compared to $23.8 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2004. Operating margin for the quarter was 20.0%, in line with the 20.0% operating margin achieved in the second quarter of 2004.
 
"We are pleased to report another record quarter of strong revenue and earnings growth for Cognizant," commented Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "Our second quarter performance was driven by growing demand for our deep industry knowledge and expertise across our entire range of verticals, including financial services, retail and manufacturing, telecommunications, and healthcare.
For example, during the quarter, we signed one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world as a new strategic client, and we are now partnering with five of the top ten global pharmaceutical companies to provide them with a comprehensive range of business-aligned IT solutions. Our proven success as a strategic partner with global companies in increasingly complex projects means we are in an ideal position to address a broader range of our clients' business and technology needs and deliver future growth for the Company."
 
2005 Outlook  Third Quarter & Full Year
 
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
"We saw continued strong demand for Cognizant's unique service offerings during the second quarter. We continue to invest in our people, our infrastructure and the development of additional best-of-breed service offerings to ensure we can meet current and future demand, while also maintaining our leadership position as a premier global provider of IT solutions," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "To that end, we have continued to aggressively invest in the construction of Cognizant's own training and development centers, as well as expand into new locations, including our recently opened technology centers in Mumbai and Coimbatore. We also maintained healthy operating margins of 20% during the quarter, which included absorbing the impact of our previously announced wage increases which took effect at the beginning of the second quarter of 2005. Based on our current visibility and the strong demand for our services, we have increased our revenue and earnings expectations for Fiscal 2005."
 
Conference Call
 
Cognizant will host a conference call today, July 28th, at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "7896348" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on August 4, 2005.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
 
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
 
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management, and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
 
Cognizant's more than 20,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and onsite client teams.
Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named Forbes' Best Small Company in America for the second consecutive year, and ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Cognizant is also included as a component of the NASDAQ-100 Index. Further information about Cognizant can be found at .
www.cognizant.com
 
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 


