FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20060613143607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
At the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held on June 13, 2006 (the "Annual Meeting"), the stockholders of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Company") reelected Venetia Kontogouris and Thomas M. Wendel as Class III directors to serve until the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. In addition, stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation that increased the maximum number of authorized shares of the Company's capital stock, all classes, from 340,000,000 shares, consisting of 325,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, to 515,000,000 shares, consisting of 500,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock.
At the Annual Meeting, stockholders also approved the Company's Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan (As Amended and Restated Through April 12, 2006) (the "Incentive Plan"). As described in the Incentive Plan, the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock issuable under the Incentive Plan was increased from 37,500,000 to 38,261,580 shares and an additional 761,580 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options or stock appreciation rights or pursuant to other stock or stock-based awards granted under the Incentive Plan. In approving the Incentive Plan, stockholders also re-approved the series of performance criteria that may be utilized in establishing specific targets to be attained as a condition to the vesting of one or more cash or stock-based awards under the Incentive Plan so as to qualify the compensation attributable to those awards as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result of the foregoing approval, the number of shares issuable under the Company's Key Employees Stock Option Plan has been reduced by 761,580 shares so that they total number of shares available for issuance under the Company's equity compensation plans remains unchanged. The other material changes effected by the amendment of the Incentive Plan are described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2006. The Company's stockholders also ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2006.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 13, 2006

Exhibit 3.1
The undersigned, for purposes of amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate") of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify as follows:
: The name of the Corporation is Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Corporation").
FIRST
: The Certificate was filed with the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 7, 2003 and amended on May 26, 2004.
SECOND
: That Article IV of the Certificate is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
THIRD
"A. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 515,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 500,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock"), and (ii) 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $0.10 par value per share ("Preferred Stock").
B. The number of authorized shares of any class or classes of stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single class, irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the GCL or any corresponding provision hereinafter enacted.
C. The following is a statement of the designations and the powers, privileges and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof in respect of each class of capital stock of the Corporation.
(1) .
COMMON STOCK
(a) . The voting, dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of the Common Stock are subject to and qualified by the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any series as may be designated by the Board of Directors upon any issuance of the Preferred Stock of any series.
General
(b) . The holders of the Common Stock shall have voting rights at all meetings of stockholders, each such holder being entitled to one vote for each share thereof held by such holder; provided, however, that, except as otherwise required by law, holders of
Voting
Common Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Certificate of Incorporation (which, as used herein, shall mean the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time, including the terms of any certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together as a class with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation. There shall be no cumulative voting.
(c) . Dividends may be declared and paid on the Common Stock from funds lawfully available therefor as and when determined by the Board of Directors and subject to any preferential dividend or other rights of any then outstanding Preferred Stock.
Dividends
(d) . Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Common Stock will be entitled to receive all assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, subject to any preferential or other rights of any then outstanding Preferred Stock. For the purposes of this paragraph (C)(1)(d), the voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with one or more other corporations (whether or not the Corporation is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger) shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, voluntary or involuntary.
Liquidation
The number of authorized shares of Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the GCL or any corresponding provision hereinafter enacted.
(2) .
PREFERRED STOCK
Subject to the limitations and in the manner provided by law, shares of the Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in series, and the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a duly-authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, is hereby authorized to determine or alter the relative rights, powers (including voting powers), preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon Preferred Stock or any wholly unissued series of shares of Preferred Stock, and to increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding) the number of shares of any such series subsequent to the issue of shares of that series. In case the number of shares of any series shall be so decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall upon the taking of any action required by applicable law resume the status which they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series."
: Except as expressly amended herein, all other provisions of the Certificate, including, but not limited to, the Certificate of Designations of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock filed with the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March 6, 2003, shall remain in full force and effect.
FOURTH
 
: That the foregoing amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors and by the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FIFTH
 
, the undersigned, being a duly authorized officer of the Corporation, does hereby execute this Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation this 13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th
day of June, 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1.0 DEFINITIONS
The following terms shall have the following meanings unless the context indicates otherwise:
shall mean either a Stock Option, an SAR, a Stock Award, a Stock Unit, a Performance Share, a Performance Unit, or a Cash Award.
1.1 "Award"
shall mean a written agreement between the Company and the Participant that establishes the terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations applicable to an Award in addition to those established by the Plan and by the Committee's exercise of its administrative powers.
1.2 "Award Agreement"
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
1.3 "Board"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an award of cash as described in Section 11 below.
1.4 "Cash Award"
shall mean (i) willful malfeasance or willful misconduct by the Employee in connection with his employment, (ii) continuing failure to perform such duties as are requested by the Company and/or its subsidiaries, (iii) failure by the Employee to observe material policies of the Company and/or its subsidiaries applicable to the Employee or (iv) the commission by the Employee of (x) any felony or (y) any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
1.5 "Cause"
shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
1.6 "Change in Control of the Company"
any Person, as such term is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act, or any successor section thereto, (other than (i) the Company, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, (iii) any Subsidiaries of the Company, (iv) any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company or (v) IMS Health Incorporated or its Subsidiaries), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 35% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities; provided however, that the acquisition of securities in a bona fide public offering or private placement of securities by an investor who is acquiring such securities for passive investment purposes only shall not constitute a "Change in Control".
(a)
during any period of twenty-four months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director (other than (i) a director nominated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 1.6 (a), (c) or (d) of the Plan, (ii) a director nominated by any Person (including the Company) who publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions (including, but not limited to, an actual or threatened proxy contest) which if consummated would constitute a Change in Control or (iii) a director nominated by any Person who is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's securities) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders is or was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (
(b)
 2
/
3
) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously, so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
the effective date or date of consummation of any transaction or series of transactions (other than a transaction to which only the Company and one or more of its subsidiaries are parties) under which the Company is merged or consolidated with any other company, other than a merger or consolidation (i) which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 66
(c)
 2
/
3
% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and (ii) after which no Person holds 35% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company or such surviving entity; or
the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;
(d)
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
1.7 "Code"
shall mean (i) the Board or (ii) a committee or subcommittee of the Board appointed by the Board from among its members. The Committee may be the Board's Compensation Committee. Unless the Board determines otherwise, the Committee shall be comprised solely of not less than two members who each shall qualify as:
1.8 "Committee"
a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) (or any successor rule) under the Exchange Act, and
(a)
an "outside director" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(b)
shall mean the Class A common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company.
1.9 "Common Stock"
shall mean Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
1.10 "Company"
shall mean shall mean the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which constitutes a permanent and total disability, as defined in Section 22(e) (3) of the Code (or any successor section thereto). The determination whether a Participant has suffered a Disability shall be made by the Committee based upon such evidence as it deems necessary and appropriate, and shall be conclusive and binding on the Participant. A Participant shall not be considered disabled unless he or she furnishes such medical or other evidence of the existence of the Disability as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may require.
1.11 "Disability"
shall mean the right to receive an amount equal to the amount of any dividend paid with respect to a share of Common Stock multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock underlying or with respect to a Stock Option, a SAR, a Stock Unit or a Performance Unit, and which shall be payable in cash, in Common Stock, in the form of Stock Units or Performance Units, or a combination of any or all of the foregoing.
1.12 "Dividend Equivalent Right"
shall mean the date on which the Plan is adopted by the Board.
1.13 "Effective Date"
shall mean an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h).
1.14 "Employee"
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including applicable regulations thereunder.
1.15 "Exchange Act"
shall mean:
1.16 "Fair Market Value of the Common Stock"
if the Common Stock is readily tradable on a national securities exchange or other market system, the closing price of the Common Stock on the date of calculation (or on the last preceding trading date if Common Stock was not traded on such date), or
(a)
if the Common Stock is not readily tradable on a national securities exchange or other market system: (i) the book value of a share of Common Stock as of the last day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of calculation; or (ii) any other value as otherwise determined in good faith by the Board.
(b)
shall mean a person (other than a person who is an Employee or a Nonemployee Director) or an entity that renders services to the Company.
1.17 "Independent Contractor"
shall mean an "incentive stock option" as such term is used in Code Section 422.
1.18 "ISO"
shall mean a member of the Board who is not an Employee.
1.19 "Nonemployee Director"
shall mean a Stock Option that does not qualify as an ISO.
1.20 "Nonqualified Stock Option"
shall mean any Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor to whom an Award has been granted by the Committee under the Plan.
1.21 "Participant"
shall mean an Award subject to the achievement of certain performance goal or goals as described in Section 12 below.
1.22 "Performance-Based Award"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 10.1 below.
1.23 "Performance Share"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 10.2 below.
1.24 "Performance Unit"
shall mean the Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan.
1.25 "Plan"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of a stock appreciation right as described in Section 8 below.
1.26 "SAR"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award of Common Stock as described in Section 9.1 below.
1.27 "Stock Award"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an option to purchase Common Stock as described in Section 7 below.
1.28 "Stock Option"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 9.2 below.
1.29 "Stock Unit"
shall mean a corporation of which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the Voting Stock or any other business entity in which the Company directly or indirectly has an ownership interest of more than 50 percent.
1.30 "Subsidiary"
shall mean the regulations promulgated under the Code by the United States Department of the Treasury, as amended from time to time.
1.31 "Treasury Regulations"
shall mean:
1.32 "Vest"
with respect to Stock Options and SARs, when the Stock Option or SAR (or a portion of such Stock Option or SAR) first becomes exercisable and remains exercisable subject to the terms and conditions of such Stock Option or SAR; or
(a)
with respect to Awards other than Stock Options and SARs, when the Participant has:
(b)
an unrestricted right, title and interest to receive the compensation (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) attributable to an Award (or a portion of such Award) or to otherwise enjoy the benefits underlying such Award; and
(i)
a right to transfer an Award subject to no Company-imposed restrictions or limitations other than restrictions and/or limitations imposed by Section 14 below.
(ii)
shall mean the date or dates on which an Award Vests.
1.33 "Vesting Date"
shall mean the capital stock of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances, in the absence of contingencies, to elect the directors of a corporation.
1.34 "Voting Stock"
2.0 PURPOSE AND TERM OF PLAN
The purpose of the Plan is to motivate certain Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors to put forth maximum efforts toward the growth, profitability, and success of the Company and Subsidiaries by providing incentives to such Employees, Nonemployee Directors and
2.1 PURPOSE.
Independent Contractors either through cash payments and/or through the ownership and performance of the Common Stock. In addition, the Plan is intended to provide incentives which will attract and retain highly qualified individuals as Employees and Nonemployee Directors and to assist in aligning the interests of such Employees and Nonemployee Directors with those of its stockholders.
The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date; provided, however, that the Plan shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company at an annual meeting or any special meeting of stockholders of the Company within 12 months before or after the Effective Date, and such approval by the stockholders of the Company shall be a condition to the right of each Participant to receive Awards hereunder. Any Award granted under the Plan prior to the approval by the stockholders of the Company shall be effective as of the date of grant (unless the Committee specifies otherwise at the time of grant), but no such Award may Vest, be paid out, or otherwise be disposed of prior to such stockholder approval. If the stockholders of the Company fail to approve the Plan in accordance with this Section 2.2, any Award granted under the Plan shall be cancelled. The Plan shall terminate on the 10th anniversary of the Effective Date (unless sooner terminated by the Board under Section 16.1 below.
2.2 TERM.
All share numbers in this April 12, 2006 Amended and Restated Plan reflect the two (2)-for one (1) split of the Common Stock effected on June 17, 2004 and all prior stock splits.
2.3 STOCK SPLITS.
3.0 ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
All Employees of the Company, all Nonemployee Directors and all Independent Contractors shall be eligible to participate in the Plan and to receive Awards.
3.1 ELIGIBILITY.
Participants shall consist of such Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors as the Committee in its sole discretion designates to receive Awards under the Plan. Designation of a Participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person or entity to receive an Award in any other year or, once designated, to receive the same type or amount of Award as granted to the Participant in any other year. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting Participants and in determining the type and amount of their respective Awards.
3.2 PARTICIPATION.
4.0 ADMINISTRATION
The Committee shall have the responsibility, in its sole discretion, to control, operate, manage and administer the Plan in accordance with its terms.
4.1 RESPONSIBILITY.
Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement which shall be signed by the Committee and the Participant; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between a provision of the Plan and any provision of an Award Agreement, the provision of the Plan shall prevail.
4.2 AWARD AGREEMENT.
The Committee shall have all the discretionary authority that may be necessary or helpful to enable it to discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Plan, including but not limited to the following:
4.3 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE.
to determine eligibility for participation in the Plan;
(a)
to determine eligibility for and the type and size of an Award granted under the Plan;
(b)
to supply any omission, correct any defect, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in such manner and to such extent as it shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion to carry the same into effect;
(c)
to issue administrative guidelines as an aid to administer the Plan and make changes in such guidelines as it from time to time deems proper;
(d)
to make rules for carrying out and administering the Plan and make changes in such rules as it from time to time deems proper;
(e)
to the extent permitted under the Plan, grant waivers of Plan terms, conditions, restrictions, and limitations;
(f)
to accelerate the Vesting of any Award when such action or actions would be in the best interest of the Company;
(g)
to grant Award in replacement of Awards previously granted under this Plan or any other executive compensation plan of the Company; and
(h)
to take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
(i)
The Committee may act only by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee may be made, without a meeting, by a writing or writings signed by all of the members of the Committee. In addition, the Committee may authorize any one or more of its members to execute and deliver documents on behalf of the Committee.
4.4 ACTION BY THE COMMITTEE.
The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members, or to one or more agents, such administrative duties as it may deem advisable; provided, however, that any such delegation shall be in writing. In addition, the Committee, or any person to whom it has delegated duties under this Section 4.5, may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The Committee may employ such legal or other counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion or computation received from any such counsel, consultant or agent. Expenses incurred by the Committee in the engagement of such counsel, consultant or agent shall be paid by the Company, or the Subsidiary whose employees have benefited from the Plan, as determined by the Committee.
4.5 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
All determinations and interpretations made by the Committee shall be binding and conclusive on all Participants and their heirs, successors, and legal representatives.
4.6 DETERMINATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE.
No member of the Board, no member of the Committee and no employee of the Company shall be liable for any act or failure to act hereunder, except in circumstances involving his or her bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or for any act or failure to act hereunder by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the administration of the Plan have been delegated.
4.7 LIABILITY.
The Company shall indemnify members of the Committee and any agent of the Committee who is an employee of the Company, against any and all liabilities or expenses to which they may be subjected by reason of any act or failure to act with respect to their duties on behalf of the Plan, except in circumstances involving such person's bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
4.8 INDEMNIFICATION.
5.0 SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN
The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which shall be available for grants or payments of Awards under the Plan during its term shall be 38,261,580 shares. Such share reserve includes a share increase of 761,580 shares authorized by the Board on April 12, 2006, subject to stockholder approval at the 2006 Annual Meeting. The shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued shares, shares of issued stock held in the Company's treasury, or both, at the discretion of the Company, and subject to any adjustments made in accordance with Section 5.2 below. Any shares of Common Stock underlying Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without the issuance of such shares shall again be available for grants of Awards under the Plan. Awards that are payable only in cash are not subject to this Section 5.1.
5.1 AVAILABLE SHARES.
If there is any change in the Common Stock of the Company, through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, dividend in kind or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, an adjustment shall be made to each outstanding Award so that each such Award shall thereafter be with respect to or exercisable for such securities, cash and/or other property as would have been received in respect of the Common Stock subject to such Award had such Award been paid, distributed or
5.2 ADJUSTMENT TO SHARES.
exercised in full immediately prior to such change or distribution. Such adjustment shall be made successively each time any such change shall occur. In addition, in the event of any such change or distribution, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to adjust, in an equitable manner, the maximum number and kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan, the maximum number and kind of shares for which Awards measured in shares of Common Stock may be made to any one Participant over the term of the Plan, the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards, the exercise price applicable to outstanding Stock Options, and the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards. Appropriate adjustments may also be made by the Committee in the terms of any Awards granted under the Plan to reflect such changes or distributions and to modify any other terms of outstanding Awards on an equitable basis, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of performance periods; provided, however, that with respect to Performance-Based Awards, such modifications and/or changes do not disqualify the compensation attributable to such Awards as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m). In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments to the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan, any adjustment with respect to an ISO due to a change or distribution described in this Section 5.2 shall comply with the rules of Code Section 424(a), and in no event shall any adjustment be made which would render any ISO granted hereunder other than an incentive stock option for purposes of Code Section 422.
6.0 MAXIMUM INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock underlying all Awards measured in shares of Common Stock (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) that may be granted to any single Participant during the life of the Plan shall be 9,000,000 shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.2 above. For purposes of the preceding sentence, such Awards that are cancelled or repriced shall continue to be counted in determining such maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted to any single Participant during the life of the Plan.
6.1 MAXIMUM AGGREGATE NUMBER OF SHARES UNDERLYING STOCK-BASED AWARDS GRANTED UNDER THE PLAN TO ANY SINGLE PARTICIPANT.
The maximum dollar amount that may be paid to any single Participant with respect to all Awards measured in cash (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) during the life of the Plan shall be $10,000,000.
6.2 MAXIMUM DOLLAR AMOUNT UNDERLYING CASH-BASED AWARDS GRANTED UNDER THE PLAN TO ANY SINGLE PARTICIPANT.
7.0 STOCK OPTIONS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Options to Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors on or after the Effective Date. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine the Employees, the Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors who will receive Stock Options and the number of shares of Common Stock underlying each Stock Option. With respect to Employees who become Participants, the Committee may grant such Participants ISOs or Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of both. With respect to Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors who become Participants, the Committee may grant such Participants only Nonqualified Stock Options. Each Stock Option shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee may impose from time to time. In addition, each Stock Option shall be subject to the following terms and conditions set forth in Sections 7.2 through 7.8 below.
7.1 IN GENERAL.
The Committee shall specify the exercise price of each Stock Option in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that the exercise price of any ISO or Nonqualified Stock Option shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant.
7.2 EXERCISE PRICE.
The Committee shall specify the term of each Stock Option in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that (i) no ISO shall be exercised after the 10th anniversary of the date of grant of such ISO and (ii) no Nonqualified Stock Option shall be exercised after the 10th
7.3 TERM OF STOCK OPTION.
anniversary of the date of grant of such Nonqualified Stock Option. Each Stock Option shall terminate at such earlier times and upon such conditions or circumstances as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, set forth in the Award Agreement on the date of grant.
The Committee shall specify the Vesting Date with respect to each Stock Option in the Award Agreement. The Committee may grant Stock Options that are Vested, either in whole or in part, on the date of grant. If the Committee fails to specify a Vesting Date in the Award Agreement, 25 percent of such Stock Option shall become exercisable on each of the first 4 anniversaries of the date of grant and shall remain exercisable following such anniversary date until the Stock Option expires in accordance with its terms under the Award Agreement or under the terms of the Plan. The Vesting of a Stock Option may be subject to such other terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee, including, without limitation, accelerating the Vesting if certain performance goals are achieved.
7.4 VESTING DATE.
The Stock Option exercise price may be paid in cash or, in the sole discretion of the Committee, by the delivery of shares of Common Stock then owned by the Participant, by the withholding of shares of Common Stock for which a Stock Option is exercisable, or by a combination of these methods. In the sole discretion of the Committee, payment may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the exercise price. To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms. The Committee may prescribe any other method of paying the exercise price that it determines to be consistent with applicable law and the purpose of the Plan, including, without limitation, in lieu of the exercise of a Stock Option by delivery of shares of Common Stock then owned by a Participant, providing the Company with a notarized statement attesting to the number of shares owned by the Participant, where upon verification by the Company, the Company would issue to the Participant only the number of incremental shares to which the Participant is entitled upon exercise of the Stock Option. In determining which methods a Participant may utilize to pay the exercise price, the Committee may consider such factors as it determines are appropriate; provided, however, that with respect to ISOs, all such discretionary determinations by the Committee shall be made at the time of grant and specified in the Award Agreement.
7.5 EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS.
In addition to being subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 7, ISOs shall comply with all other requirements under Code Section 422. Accordingly, ISOs may be granted only to Participants who are employees (as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h)) of the Company or of any "Parent Corporation" (as defined in Code Section 424(e)) or of any "Subsidiary Corporation" (as defined in Code Section 424(f)) on the date of grant. The aggregate market value (determined as of the time the ISO is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which ISOs (under all option plans of the Company and of any Parent Corporation and of any Subsidiary Corporation) are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000. For purposes of the preceding sentence, ISOs shall be taken into account in the order in which they are granted. ISOs shall not be transferable by the Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable, during the Participant's lifetime, only by such Participant. The Committee shall not grant ISOs to any Employee who, at the time the ISO is granted, owns stock possessing (after the application of the attribution rules of Code Section 424(d)) more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Parent Corporation or of any Subsidiary Corporation unless the exercise price of the ISO is fixed at not less than 110 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and the exercise of such ISO is prohibited by its terms after the 5th anniversary of the ISO's date of grant. In addition, no ISO shall be issued to a Participant in tandem with a Nonqualified Stock Option issued to such Participant in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 14a.422A-1, Q/A-39.
7.6 RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO ISOS.
The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreements or otherwise, establish such other terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, of any Stock Option, provided they are not inconsistent with the Plan, including, without limitation, the requirement that the Participant not engage in competition with the Company.
7.7 ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant a Stock Option to any holder of an option (hereinafter referred to as an "Original Option") to purchase shares of the stock of any corporation:
7.8 CONVERSION STOCK OPTIONS.
the stock or assets of which were acquired, directly or indirectly, by the Company or any Subsidiary, or
(a)
which was merged with and into the Company or a Subsidiary,
(b)
so that the Original Option is converted into a Stock Option (hereinafter referred to as a "Conversion Stock Option"); provided, however, that such Conversion Stock Option as of the date of its grant (the "Conversion Stock Option Grant Date") shall have the same economic value as the Original Option as of the Conversion Stock Option Grant Date. In addition, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion determines otherwise, a Conversion Stock Option which is converting an Original Option intended to qualify as an ISO shall have the same terms and conditions as applicable to the Original Option in accordance with Code Section 424 and the Treasury Regulations thereunder so that the conversion (x) is treated as the issuance or assumption of a stock option under Code Section 424(a) and (y) is not treated as a modification, extension or renewal of a stock option under Code Section 424(h).
8.0 SARS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant SARs to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors. An SAR is a right to receive a payment in cash, Common Stock or a combination of both, in an amount equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, or other specified valuation, of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over (y) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, or other specified valuation (which shall be no less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock), of such shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is granted, all as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that if a SAR is granted retroactively in tandem with or in substitution for a Stock Option, the designated Fair Market Value of the Common Stock in the Award Agreement may be the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date such Stock Option was granted. Each SAR shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including, but not limited to, a provision that automatically converts a SAR into a Stock Option on a conversion date specified at the time of grant, as the Committee shall impose from time to time in its sole discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan.
8.1 IN GENERAL.
9.0 STOCK AWARDS AND STOCK UNITS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Awards to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Stock Award shall consist of shares of Common Stock which shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion determines appropriate including, without limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such shares, the Vesting Date with respect to such shares, and the right of the Company to reacquire such shares for no consideration upon termination of the Participant's employment within specified periods. The Committee may require the Participant to deliver a duly signed stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Stock covered by such Stock Award and/or that the stock certificates evidencing such shares be held in custody or bear restrictive legends until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed. With respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock, including the right to receive dividends and to vote the shares, unless the Committee determines otherwise on the date of grant.
9.1 STOCK AWARDS.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractor Stock Units as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Stock Unit is a hypothetical share of Common Stock represented by a notional account established and maintained (or caused to be established or maintained) by the Company for such Participant who receives a grant of Stock Units. Stock Units shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determinations of the Vesting Date with respect to such Stock Units and the criteria for the Vesting of such Stock Units. A Stock Unit granted by the Committee shall provide for payment in shares of
9.2 STOCK UNITS.
Common Stock at such time or times as the Award Agreement shall specify. The Committee shall determine whether a Participant who has been granted a Stock Unit shall also be entitled to a Dividend Equivalent Right.
Subject to a Participant's election to defer in accordance with Section 17.3 below, upon the Vesting of a Stock Unit, the shares of Common Stock representing the Stock Unit shall be distributed to the Participant, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, provides for the payment of the Stock Unit in cash (or partly in cash and partly in shares of Common Stock) equal to the value of the shares of Common Stock which would otherwise be distributed to the Participant.
9.3 PAYOUT OF STOCK UNITS.
10.0 PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Performance Shares to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Performance Share shall consist of a share or shares of Common Stock which shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the performance goal or goals which, depending on the extent to which such goals are met, will determine the number and/or value of the Performance Shares that will be paid out or distributed to the Participant who has been granted Performance Shares. Performance goals may be based on, without limitation, Company-wide, divisional and/or individual performance, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine, and may be based on the performance measures listed in Section 12.3 below.
10.1 PERFORMANCE SHARES.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors Performance Units as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Performance Unit is a hypothetical share or shares of Common Stock represented by a notional account which shall be established and maintained (or caused to be established or maintained) by the Company for such Participant who receives a grant of Performance Units. Performance Units shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the performance goal or goals which, depending on the extent to which such goals are met, will determine the number and/or value of the Performance Units that will be accrued with respect to the Participant who has been granted Performance Units. Performance goals may be based on, without limitation, Company-wide, divisional and/or individual performance, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine, and may be based on the performance measures listed in Section 12.3 below.
10.2 PERFORMANCE UNITS.
With respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units that are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Awards (as described in Section 12 below), the Committee shall have the authority at any time to make adjustments to performance goals for any outstanding Performance Shares or Performance Units which the Committee deems necessary or desirable unless at the time of establishment of the performance goals the Committee shall have precluded its authority to make such adjustments.
10.3 ADJUSTMENT OF PERFORMANCE GOALS.
Subject to a Participant's election to defer in accordance with Section 17.3 below, upon the Vesting of a Performance Share or a Performance Unit, the shares of Common Stock representing the Performance Share or the Performance Unit shall be distributed to the Participant, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, provides for the payment of the Performance Share or a Performance Unit in cash (or partly in cash and partly in shares of Common Stock) equal to the value of the shares of Common Stock which would otherwise be distributed to the Participant.
10.4 PAYOUT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES OR PERFORMANCE UNITS.
11.0 CASH AWARDS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Cash Awards to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Cash Award shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the Vesting Date with respect to such Cash Award, the criteria for the Vesting of such Cash Award, and the right of the Company to require the Participant to repay the Cash Award (with or without interest) upon termination of the Participant's employment within specified periods.
11.1 IN GENERAL.
12.0 PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate Awards granted under the Plan as Performance-Based Awards (as defined below) if it determines that such compensation might not be tax deductible by the Company due to the deduction limitation imposed by Code Section 162(m). Accordingly, an Award granted under the Plan may be granted in such a manner that the compensation attributable to such Award is intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" (as such term is used in Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder) and thus be exempt from the deduction limitation imposed by Code Section 162(m) ("Performance-Based Awards").
12.1 IN GENERAL.
Awards shall only qualify as Performance-Based Awards under the Plan if:
12.2 QUALIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS.
at the time of grant the Committee is comprised solely of two or more "outside directors" (as such term is used in Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder);
(a)
with respect to either the granting or Vesting of an Award (other than (i) a Nonqualified Stock Option or (ii) an SAR, which are granted with an exercise price at or above the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant), such Award is subject to the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the performance measures specified in Section 12.3 below;
(b)
the Committee establishes in writing (i) the objective performance-based goals applicable to a given performance period and (ii) the individual employees or class of employees to which such performance-based goals apply no later than 90 days after the commencement of such performance period (but in no event after 25 percent of such performance period has elapsed);
(c) 
no compensation attributable to a Performance-Based Award will be paid to or otherwise received by a Participant until the Committee certifies in writing that the performance goal or goals (and any other material terms) applicable to such performance period have been satisfied;
(d)
after the establishment of a performance goal, the Committee shall not revise such performance goal (unless such revision will not disqualify compensation attributable to the Award as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m)) or increase the amount of compensation payable with respect to such Award upon the attainment of such performance goal; and
(e)
no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of such performance goals may be waived with respect to Performance-Based Awards, except in the event of a Change in Control or certain involuntary terminations of employment or service prior to the completion of the performance period.
(f)
The Committee may use the following performance measures (either individually or in any combination) to set performance goals with respect to Awards intended to qualify as Performance-Based Awards: net sales; pretax income before allocation of corporate overhead and bonus; budget; cash flow; earnings per share; net income; division, group or corporate financial goals; return on stockholders' equity; return on assets; attainment of strategic and operational initiatives; appreciation in and/or maintenance of the price of the Common Stock or any other publicly-traded securities of the Company; market share; gross profits; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense; economic value-added models; comparisons with various stock market indices; increase in number of customers; and/or reductions in costs. The performance measures may, at the time they are established for one or more such Performance-Based Awards, be subject to adjustment for one or more of the following items: extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring items of gain, loss or expense; items of gain, loss or expense related to (a) the disposal of a business or discontinued operations or (b) the operations of any business acquired by the Company; accruals for reorganization and restructuring cost and expenses; and items of gain, loss or expense attributable to changes in tax laws and regulations, accounting principles or other applicable laws or regulations.
12.3 PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
As required by Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(vi), the material terms of performance goals as described in this Section 12 shall be disclosed to and reapproved by the Company's stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the 5th year following the year in which the Company's stockholders previously approved such performance goals.
12.4 STOCKHOLDER REAPPROVAL.
13.0 CHANGE IN CONTROL
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if there is a Change in Control of the Company, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may take such actions as it deems appropriate with respect to outstanding Awards, including, without limitation, accelerating the Vesting Date and/or payout of such Awards; provided, however, that such action shall not conflict with any provision contained in an Award Agreement unless such provision is amended in accordance with Section 16.3 below.
13.1 ACCELERATED VESTING.
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, all or a portion of certain outstanding Awards shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the holders, and each such holder shall receive an amount equal to the value of such Award on the date of the change in control, and with respect to each share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Option or SAR, an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the occurrence of such change in control over the exercise price per share of such Stock Option or SAR. Such amount shall be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of property (including the property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
13.2 CASHOUT.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that an Award may be assumed by any entity which acquires control of the Company or may be substituted by a similar award under such entity's compensation plans.
13.3 ASSUMPTION OR SUBSTITUTION OF AWARDS.
14.0 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT IF PARTICIPANT IS AN EMPLOYEE
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated due to death or Disability:
14.1 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO DEATH OR DISABILITY.
all non-Vested portions of Awards held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date; and
(a)
all Vested portions of Stock Options and SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, shall remain exercisable until the earlier of:
(b)
the end of the 12-month period following the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, or
(i)
the date the Stock Option or SAR would otherwise expire.
(ii)
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company for cause, all Awards held by a Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment for cause, whether Vested or non-Vested, shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date.
14.2 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE.
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated for any reason other than for cause or other than due to death or Disability:
14.3 OTHER TERMINATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
all non-Vested portions of Awards held by the Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date; and
(a)
all Vested portions of Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) the end of the 90-day period following the date of the termination of the Participant's employment or (ii) the date the Stock Option or SAR would otherwise expire.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that:
14.4 COMMITTEE DISCRETION.
any or all non-Vested portions of Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately become exercisable as of such date and, except with respect to ISOs, shall remain exercisable until a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Stock Option or SAR is scheduled to expire;
(a)
any or all Vested portions of Nonqualified Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall remain exercisable until a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Stock Option or SAR is scheduled to expire; and/or
(b)
any or all non-Vested portions of Stock Awards, Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, and/or Cash Awards held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately Vest or shall become Vested on a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Award is scheduled to vest; provided, however, that the Committee shall not exercise such discretion with respect to any Performance-Based Award if and to the extent the provision for such accelerated vesting would otherwise disqualify the compensation attributable to that Award as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, (i) the provisions contained in this Section 14 shall be applied to an ISO only if the application of such provision maintains the treatment of such ISO as an ISO and (ii) the exercise period of an ISO in the event of a termination of the Participant's employment due to Disability provided in Section 14.1 above shall be applied only if the Participant is "permanently and totally disabled" (as such term is defined in Code Section 22(e)(3)).
14.5 ISOS.
15.0 TAXES
With respect to Employees, the Company, or the applicable Subsidiary, may require a Participant who has become vested in his or her Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit granted hereunder, or who exercises a Stock Option or SAR granted hereunder to reimburse the corporation which employs such Participant for any taxes required by any governmental regulatory authority to be withheld or otherwise deducted and paid by such corporation or entity in respect of the issuance or disposition of such shares or the payment of any amounts. In lieu thereof, the corporation or entity which employs such Participant shall have the right to withhold the amount of such taxes from any other sums due or to become due from such corporation or entity to the Participant upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall prescribe. The corporation or entity that employs such Participant may, in its discretion, hold the stock certificate to which such Participant is entitled upon the vesting of a Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit or the exercise of a Stock Option or SAR as security for the payment of such withholding tax liability, until cash sufficient to pay that liability has been accumulated.
15.1 WITHHOLDING TAXES.
With respect to Employees, at any time that the Company, Subsidiary or other entity that employs such Participant becomes subject to a withholding obligation under applicable law with respect to the vesting of a Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit or the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option (the "Tax Date"), except as set forth below, a holder of such Award may elect to satisfy, in whole or in part, the holder's related personal tax liabilities (an "Election") by (i) directing the Company, Subsidiary or other entity that employs such Participant to withhold from shares issuable in connection with such vesting or exercise either a specified number of shares or shares of Common Stock having a specified value (in each case limited to the related minimum statutory personal withholding tax liabilities with respect to the applicable taxing jurisdiction so as to preclude any "liability" accounting treatment for the Award pursuant to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), (ii) tendering shares of
15.2 USE OF COMMON STOCK TO SATISFY WITHHOLDING OBLIGATION.
Common Stock previously issued pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option or other shares of the Common Stock owned by the holder, or (iii) combining any or all of the foregoing Elections in any fashion. An Election shall be irrevocable. The withheld shares and other shares of Common Stock tendered in payment shall be valued at their Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Tax Date. The Committee may disapprove of any Election, suspend or terminate the right to make Elections or provide that the right to make Elections shall not apply to particular shares or exercises. The Committee may impose any additional conditions or restrictions on the right to make an Election as it shall deem appropriate, including conditions or restrictions with respect to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
No person connected with the Plan in any capacity, including, but not limited to, the Company and any Subsidiary and their directors, officers, agents and employees makes any representation, commitment, or guarantee that any tax treatment, including, but not limited to, federal, state and local income, estate and gift tax treatment, will be applicable with respect to amounts deferred under the Plan, or paid to or for the benefit of a Participant under the Plan, or that such tax treatment will apply to or be available to a Participant on account of participation in the Plan.
15.3 NO GUARANTEE OF TAX CONSEQUENCES.
16.0 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time with or without prior notice; provided, however, that no action authorized by this Section 16.1 shall reduce the amount of any outstanding Award or change the terms and conditions thereof without the Participant's consent.
16.1 TERMINATION OF PLAN.
The Board may amend the Plan at any time with or without prior notice; provided, however, that no action authorized by this Section 16.2 shall reduce the amount of any outstanding Award or change the terms and conditions thereof without the Participant's consent. No amendment of the Plan shall, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company:
16.2 AMENDMENT OF PLAN.
increase the total number of shares which may be issued under the Plan;
(a)
increase the maximum number of shares with respect to all Awards measured in Common Stock that may be granted to any individual under the Plan;
(b)
increase the maximum dollar amount that may be paid with respect to all Awards measured in cash; or
(c)
modify the requirements as to eligibility for Awards under the Plan.
(d)
In addition, the Plan shall not be amended without the approval of such amendment by the Company's stockholders if such amendment is (i) required under the rules and regulations of the stock exchange or national market system on which the Common Stock is listed or (ii) otherwise considered material in the reasonable judgment of the Committee.
The Committee may amend or modify any Award Agreement at any time by mutual agreement between the Committee and the Participant or such other persons as may then have an interest therein. In addition, by mutual agreement between the Committee and a Participant or such other persons as may then have an interest therein, Awards may be granted to an Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor in substitution and exchange for, and in cancellation of, any Awards previously granted to such Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor under the Plan, or any award previously granted to such Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor under any other present or future plan of the Company or any present or future plan of an entity which (i) is purchased by the Company, (ii) purchases the Company, or (iii) merges into or with the Company.
16.3 AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION OF AWARD AGREEMENTS.
17.0 MISCELLANEOUS
Awards granted under the Plan may also be subject to such other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Award granted to any other Participant) as the Committee determines on the date of grant to be appropriate, including, without limitation, for the installment purchase of Common Stock under Stock Options, to assist the Participant in financing the acquisition of Common Stock, for the forfeiture of, or restrictions on resale or other disposition of, Common Stock acquired under
17.1 OTHER PROVISIONS.
any Stock Option, for the acceleration of Vesting of Awards in the event of a change in control of the Company, for the payment of the value of Awards to Participants in the event of a change in control of the Company, or to comply with federal and state securities laws, or understandings or conditions as to the Participant's employment in addition to those specifically provided for under the Plan.
Each Award granted under the Plan to a Participant shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and Stock Options and SARs shall be exercisable, during the Participant's lifetime, only by the Participant. In the event of the death of a Participant, each Stock Option or SAR theretofore granted to him or her shall be exercisable during such period after his or her death as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, set forth in the Award Agreement on the date of grant and then only by the executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased Participant or the person or persons to whom the deceased Participant's rights under the Stock Option or SAR shall pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit the transferability of a Stock Option (other than an ISO) by a Participant solely to members of the Participant's immediate family or trusts or family partnerships or other similar entities for the benefit of such persons, and subject to such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish and include in the Award Agreement.
17.2 TRANSFERABILITY.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, allow a Participant to elect to defer the receipt of any compensation attributable to an Award under guidelines and procedures to be established by the Committee after taking into account the advice of the Company's tax counsel.
17.3 ELECTION TO DEFER COMPENSATION ATTRIBUTABLE TO AWARD.
If at any time the Committee shall determine that the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject to any Award on any securities exchange or under any applicable law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory authority, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of an Award or the issuance of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be exercised, distributed or paid out, as the case may be, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
17.4 LISTING OF SHARES AND RELATED MATTERS.
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
17.5 NO RIGHT, TITLE, OR INTEREST IN COMPANY ASSETS.
The Participant's rights, if any, to continue to serve the Company as a director, officer, employee, independent contractor or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by his or her designation as a Participant under the Plan, and the Company or the applicable Subsidiary reserves the right to terminate the employment of any Employee or the services of any Independent Contractor or director at any time. The adoption of the Plan shall not be deemed to give any Employee, Nonemployee Director, Independent Contractor or any other individual any right to be selected as a Participant or to be granted an Award.
17.6 NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE OR TO GRANTS.
The Committee may grant Awards to individual Participants who are subject to the tax laws of nations other than the United States, and such Awards may have terms and conditions as determined by the Committee as necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws. The Committee may take any action which it deems advisable to obtain approval of such Awards by the appropriate foreign governmental entity; provided, however, that no such Awards may be granted pursuant to this Section 16.6 and no action may be taken which would result in a violation of the Exchange Act or any other applicable law.
17.7 AWARDS SUBJECT TO FOREIGN LAWS.
The Plan, all Awards granted hereunder, and all actions taken in connection herewith shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws, except as superseded by applicable federal law.
17.8 GOVERNING LAW.
No Award granted under the Plan shall be considered compensation for purposes of computing benefits under any retirement plan of the Company or any Subsidiary nor affect any benefits or compensation under any other benefit or compensation plan of the Company or any Subsidiary now or subsequently in effect.
17.9 OTHER BENEFITS.
No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Common Stock, Stock Options, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
17.10 NO FRACTIONAL SHARES.
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may not, without the consent of the Company's stockholders, reprice any outstanding Award; provided, however, that stock splits, stock dividends and similar events as set forth in Section 5.2 herein shall not be deemed to be a repricing hereunder.
17.11 PROHIBITION ON REPRICING OF OPTIONS.
Except as set forth in Section 14 herein and notwithstanding any other provision set forth in the Plan to the contrary, (a) any Award (other than a Stock Option or SAR) that is not subject to performance criteria shall Vest over a service period of at least three years, with such vesting to occur in equal installments over such three year period, and (b) any Award (other than a Stock Option or SAR) that is subject to performance criteria shall Vest over a performance period of at least 12 months in one or more installments over that period.
17.12 MINIMUM VESTING PERIODS.


