FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20060209073102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 9, 2006, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 9, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  February 9, 2006  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005.
 
Highlights  Fourth Quarter 2005
 
 
 
 
Revenue for the fourth quarter increased to $256.9 million, up 9% from $235.5 million in the third quarter of 2005, and up 49% from $172.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. GAAP net income was $57.7 million, or $0.39 per diluted share. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Cognizant completed the repatriation of approximately $60 million of earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, leading to a one-time income tax benefit of approximately $12.4 million, or $0.08 per diluted share. Excluding this one-time tax benefit, net income for the fourth quarter increased to $45.3 million on an adjusted basis, or $0.31 per diluted share, compared to $30.6 million or $0.21 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2004. Operating margin for the quarter was 19.9%, at the high end of the Company's targeted 19 to 20% range.
Highlights  Full Year 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue for 2005 increased to $885.8 million, compared to $586.7 million in 2004. GAAP net income was $166.3 million, or $1.13 per diluted share. Excluding the one-time tax benefit, net income for the full year increased to $153.9 million, or $1.05 per diluted share on an adjusted basis, compared to $100.2 million or $0.70 per diluted share in 2004.
 
Business Highlights
 
"Cognizant's strong performance during the fourth quarter concludes a year of exceptional overall performance for the company, driving us past an annual revenue run rate of $1 billion and firmly placing us in the top tier of the offshore IT services industry," said Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "Our dedicated focus on collaborating and building increasingly deeper relationships with our clients propelled our growth across all our key vertical practices, and we finished the year with 67 strategic clients. We extended our leadership position in Financial Services with the addition of two more strategic clients within the quarter, and Healthcare and Life Sciences, where Cognizant now has client relationships with seven of the world's top pharmaceutical companies and three of America's top five healthcare organizations."
 
Cognizant added over 9,000 associates during the year, ending December with more than 24,300 employees. Key hires during the quarter included engineering graduates, MBAs, senior-level architects, program managers, and practice leaders from major corporations in the Company's key industry verticals.
 
"We are also pleased that we have been able to effectively manage this industry-leading growth while reinvesting in the business," continued Narayanan. "Our reinvestment strategy, especially in hiring client-facing managers in North America and Europe and industry experts across the globe, results in consistently high levels of client satisfaction and has enabled us to drive deeper relationships with our clients and cross-sell a broader range of services. We believe that the combination of our focus on vertically aligned practices, deep commitment to strengthening our customers' businesses, and consistent execution positions Cognizant to continue to grow at a rate faster than our competition in 2006."
 
2006 Outlook  First Quarter & Full Year
 
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"During 2005, we continued to successfully execute on our long-standing strategy of reinvesting in the future growth of the business while maintaining consistent operating margins," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "This strategy has enabled us to expand and further enhance our operations in Asia, North America and Europe ahead of demand and to invest in the people and programs to deliver industry-leading growth. We ended the year with $424 million in cash and short-term investments on our balance sheet, an increase of over $109 million for the year. We look forward to another year of strong performance, based on the robust demand for Cognizant's increasing range of services across both vertical and geographic markets."
 
Conference Call
 
Cognizant will host a conference call today, February 9, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "4331879" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on February 16, 2006.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
 
About Cognizant
 
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant provides applications management, development, integration, and re-engineering, infrastructure management, business process outsourcing, and a number of related services such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management, and change management through its onsite/offshore outsourcing model.
 
Cognizant's more than 25,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and onsite client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named one of Forbes' Best Small Companies in America for the fourth consecutive year, and ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100 Index, and further information about Cognizant can be found at www.cognizant.com.
 
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
In addition to its reported US GAAP operating results, Cognizant has included in the table above as adjusted operating results that the Securities and Exchange Commission defines as "non-GAAP financial measures." Management believes that such non-GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the company's reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors analyzing period to period comparisons of the company's growth. The as adjusted column above for the three months ended December 31, 2005 reflects the following adjustment:
 
 
 
In addition to its reported US GAAP operating results, Cognizant has included in the table above as adjusted operating results that the Securities and Exchange Commission defines as "non-GAAP financial measures." Management believes that such non-GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the company's reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors analyzing period to period comparisons of the company's growth. The as adjusted column above for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 reflects the following adjustment:
 
 
 
 


