FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20061102071656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 2, 2006, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
*
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 2, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing plans to expand its infrastructure in India through the expansion of its existing real estate development program. As part of the expanded real estate development program, the Company expects to spend over $200 million through the end of 2008 to build new fully-owned techno-complexes and expand its infrastructure in five cities. The construction of these campuses is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2007 and continue through the end of 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Company regarding the expansion of the Company's infrastructure in India is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
Teaneck, NJ  November 2, 2006  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced its financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006.
Highlights  Third Quarter 2006
 
 
 
Revenue for the third quarter of 2006 increased to $377.5 million, up 12% sequentially from $336.8 million in the second quarter of 2006, and up 60% from $235.5 million in the third quarter of 2005. GAAP net income was $61.0 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, compared to $40.6 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2005. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.45. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.2%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $7.5 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.2%, at the high end of the Company's targeted 19-20% range. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
Highlights  Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006
 
 
 
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 increased to $999.8 million, up 59% from $628.9 million in the same period of 2005. GAAP net income was $163.3 million, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared to $108.6 million, or $0.74 per diluted share, in the same period of 2005. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $1.22. GAAP operating margin was 18.3%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $21.8 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.4%. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"We are very pleased with our strong financial performance in the third quarter, which further extends our track record of industry-leading growth," said Lakshmi Narayanan, President and CEO of Cognizant. "Our results were driven by our ability to leverage Cognizant's leadership in our core vertical markets and key solution offerings to win new business from both new and existing customers. During the quarter, we experienced strong growth across our industry segments, including strengthening our industry leadership in healthcare, life sciences and financial services. Demand for our broad range of solutions was particularly evident in testing, ERP/CRM, complex systems development, high-end vertical BPO and IT infrastructure management, all areas where we have translated our deep technology and domain expertise into strong market positions over the last several quarters. We also maintained our focus on building the foundation to support the next phase of our growth by investing heavily in our capabilities, people and infrastructure on a global scale."
Narayanan continued, "As we move forward into 2007, we recognize that what distinguishes Cognizant in the market is our unparalleled commitment to partnering with our customers to strengthen their business while providing a tangible return on their IT investments. We are confident that our commitment to generating high levels of customer satisfaction will continue to fuel strong demand for our services and drive our industry-leading growth well into 2007."
2006 Outlook  Fourth Quarter & Full Year
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Cognizant's outstanding growth during the quarter is a testament to the strength of our long-standing reinvestment strategy," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "During the third quarter, we aggressively invested in building our employee base, with a net addition of approximately 4,700 employees around the world. We also continued to expand our European business, where growth exceeded the Company average for the second consecutive quarter. Furthermore, as we announced this morning, we continue to make significant investments in our global infrastructure and campuses across India to enhance our flexibility to grow the Company as demand for our services continues to escalate. As a result of our strong performance in the first nine months of the year, combined with the overall positive demand environment, we are raising guidance for Fiscal 2006."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call November 2, at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "8714977" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on November 9, 2006.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant uses its own on-site/offshore outsourcing model to provide applications management, development, integration, and reengineering; infrastructure management; business process outsourcing; and numerous related services, such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management, and change management.
Cognizant's more than 35,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and on-site client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named one of Forbes' Best Small Companies in America for the fourth consecutive year, and ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100 Index. Find additional information about Cognizant at www.cognizant.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
For its internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, Cognizant's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of Cognizant's operating results to that of its competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123R, Cognizant's management believes that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation allows investors to make additional comparisons between Cognizant's operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, Cognizant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with the company's reported results, can provide useful supplemental information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude costs, namely, stock-based compensation, that are recurring. Stock-based compensation has been and will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in Cognizant's business. Management compensates for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Notes:

Exhibit 99.2
 
Teaneck, NJ  November 2, 2006  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT services, today announced plans to further expand its infrastructure in India through an expansion of its existing real estate development program. Through the expanded program, which includes the expenditure of over $200 million through the end of 2008 on land acquisition, facilities construction and furnishing, the company expects to build new fully owned techno-complexes that will significantly increase Cognizant's existing campus footprint in India with the addition of over three million square feet and capacity for over 30,000 new employees.
As part of this program, Cognizant plans to develop state-of-the-art techno-complexes and expand its infrastructure in five cities  Chennai, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Pune. The campuses are planned to be built in regions designated as Special Economic Zones. Construction is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2007 and continue through the end of 2008. In addition to the construction of owned facilities, Cognizant will continue to lease additional new facilities throughout India as required to meet its headcount growth requirements.
"Cognizant has grown faster than our competition over the last several years, and our strong pipeline reinforces our confidence in our future growth plans," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial Officer of Cognizant. "Our strategy of making ahead-of-the-curve investments in our people and infrastructure has established Cognizant among the top tier companies in the offshore outsourcing industry. As we plan for the next phase of Cognizant's growth, we are focused on building the scale to address the needs of our businesses around the world. Building larger Cognizant-owned facilities in India is a key part of our
strategy. We expect our new construction program will enable us to meet growing customer demand in North America, Europe, South America and Asia and continue to attract the industry's most talented and best people."
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of IT services. Focused on delivering strategic information technology solutions that address the complex business needs of its clients, Cognizant uses its own on-site/offshore outsourcing model to provide applications management, development, integration, and reengineering; infrastructure management; business process outsourcing; and numerous related services, such as enterprise consulting, technology architecture, program management, and change management.
Cognizant's more than 35,000 employees are committed to partnerships that sustain long-term, proven value for customers by delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions through its development centers in India and on-site client teams. Cognizant maintains P-CMM and SEI-CMM Level 5 assessments from an independent third-party assessor, was recently named one of Forbes' Best Small Companies in America for the fourth consecutive year, and ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies. Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100 Index. Find additional information about Cognizant at www.cognizant.com.
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


