FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20071206201858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2007, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate and Governance Committee (the "Nominating Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Company"), the Board appointed John Fox to the Board as a Class III Director to fill an existing vacancy. Mr. Fox will serve until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held in 2009.
Mr. Fox, age 65, formerly served as Vice Chairman of Deloitte & Touche LLP and Global Director, Strategic Clients for Deloitte Consulting, from 1998 until 2003. Mr. Fox held various other positions with Deloitte Consulting from 1968 to 2003, and in addition to his responsibilities as Vice Chairman and Global Director, he also served on Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu's board of directors and was a member of the Governance (Executive) Committee from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Fox currently serves as a Trustee for Wabash College and Steppenwolf Theatre Company and is a member of the board of directors of VASCO Data Security International, Inc. as well as various non-profit entities. Mr. Fox received his B.A. degree from Wabash College and his MBA from the University of Michigan.
The Board determined that Mr. Fox has no relationship with the Company or its subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly, that would be inconsistent with a determination of independence under the applicable rules and regulations of NASDAQ or the Securities and Exchange Commission. Neither Mr. Fox nor any member of his immediate family has engaged, directly or indirectly, in any transaction, or series of similar transactions, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries since January 1, 2006 in which the amount involved exceeds $60,000. In addition, Mr. Fox does not have any family relationship with any executive officer or director of the Company.
Mr. Fox shall receive compensation for serving on the Board pursuant to the Board compensation plan that was previously disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. Pursuant to such compensation plan, on December 6, 2007 (the "Grant Date"), the Company granted Mr. Fox nonqualified stock options to purchase 25,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), pursuant to the grant provisions of the Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and restated through the date of grant) (the "1999 Plan"), at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying Common Stock on the Grant Date. Fifty percent (50%) of such options will vest one (1) year from the Grant Date, and the remaining fifty percent (50%) of such options will vest two (2) years from the Grant Date. Such option grant has a term of 10 years.
On December 6, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Fox to serve as a director of the Company. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Awards of Performance Unit Grants to Certain Named Executives
On December 6, 2007, the independent members of the Board, after thorough evaluation, granted the following awards of Performance Units to certain named executive officers of the Company set forth below pursuant to the 1999 Plan. The independent members of the Board believe that the following equity awards are competitive with the Company's peer group, improve employee retention and align the goals of management with those of the Company's stockholders. The shares of Common Stock under the Performance Units vest upon the achievement of certain performance milestones set forth below.
 
Such equity awards were granted pursuant to the Company's 1999 Plan. The foregoing table sets forth the number of shares of Common Stock under the Performance Units that will vest if (i) the Committee (as such term is defined in the 1999 Plan) determines that the annual net sales growth for the calendar year ending coincident with the relevant measurement date meets or exceeds the applicable targets for such year and (ii) the participant remains employed by or continues to serve the Company, or any subsidiary thereof, as an employee, non-employee director, independent contractor or otherwise on December 31, 2010. The number of shares of Common Stock that will vest for performance between the applicable threshold targets will be determined using straight-line interpolation, rounded down to the preceding whole number. The number of shares underlying the Performance Units were calculated using the closing price of the Common Stock on December 5, 2007, equal to $31.78 per share.
 
Increase to Stock Repurchase Program
On December 6, 2007, the Company also announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $100 million increase in the aggregate value of shares that the Company may repurchase pursuant to its previously implemented $100 million stock repurchase program. Repurchases under the program may continue to be made through open market purchases or private transactions, in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18. The timing of any repurchases and the exact number of shares of common stock to be purchased will be determined by the Company's management, in its discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The Company anticipates that the $100 million increase in the stock repurchase program will be funded using its cash on hand and cash generated from operations.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 6, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), grants this Award of Performance Units to the Participant named below, pursuant to the Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and this Performance Unit Award Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein will each have the meaning assigned to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Plan, and other materials required to be delivered or made available to the Participant, will be delivered or made available electronically, provided that upon request of the Participant, the Company will deliver to the Participant paper copies of such materials. By accepting the grant of the Performance Units under this Agreement, the Participant hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement. The payment of any award, shares of Common Stock, benefits, or dividend equivalents hereunder is expressly conditioned upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan and your compliance with such terms and conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officers to execute and attest this Agreement, effective as of the Date of Grant.

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Teaneck, NJ  December 6, 2007  Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of global IT and business process outsourcing services, announced that John Fox has been elected to its Board of Directors effective today.
Francisco D'Souza, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cognizant commented, "We are delighted to welcome John Fox to Cognizant's Board of Directors. John is a proven leader in the consulting and outsourcing industry. His operating experience over three decades in the industry and strategic insight will be a valuable asset as Cognizant continues to expand our growth platform in the coming years."
Mr. Fox, age 65, was Vice Chairman of Deloitte & Touche LLP and Global Director, Strategic Clients for Deloitte Consulting, then a $3.4 billion firm, from 1998 to 2003. He also served on Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu's Board of Directors and was a member of the Governance (Executive) Committee from 1998 to 2003.
During his 36-year tenure with Deloitte, Mr. Fox consulted with Fortune 1000 companies, helping clients tackle complex changes, advising on strategic initiatives, developing new business models, transforming business processes and driving organizational change. He is a graduate of Wabash College and holds a Masters of Business Administration from the University of Michigan. Mr. Fox currently serves on the Board of Directors of VASCO Data Security International.
With his election, Cognizant's Board of Directors now consists of seven directors, five of whom are independent under NASDAQ's rules.
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Cognizant's single-minded passion is to dedicate our global technology and innovation know-how, our industry expertise and worldwide resources to working together with clients to make their businesses stronger. With more than 35 global delivery centers and over 53,000 employees, we combine a unique onsite/offshore delivery model infused by a distinct culture of customer satisfaction. A member of the NASDAQ-100 Index and S&P 500 Index, Cognizant is a Forbes Global 2000 company and is ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Info Tech 100, Hot Growth and Top 50 Performers listings. Visit us online at .
www.cognizant.com
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
CONTACTS:
Kirsten Paragona
Director, Cognizant Corporate Media Relations
978-356-3342
Kirsten.paragona@cognizant.com
Investors:
Scot Hoffman
Financial Dynamics
212-850-5617
scot.hoffman@fd.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
Teaneck, N.J.  December 6, 2007  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of global IT and business process outsourcing services, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to purchase an additional $100 million of Cognizant common stock. The Board's authorization expands the Company's share repurchase program originally announced in September 2007 to $200 million. As of December 5, 2007, Cognizant has repurchased a total of approximately 3.1 million shares for $95.4 million at an average price of $30.90 per share.
"The expansion of Cognizant's share repurchase program further underscores the Board's confidence in the fundamentals of our business," said Francisco D'Souza, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cognizant. "Clients across the broad range of industries we serve continue to express strong interest in Cognizant's seamless onsite/offshore delivery model, giving us continued optimism about our growth prospects for 2008."
Repurchases under the program may be made through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18. The timing of repurchases and the exact number of shares of common stock to be purchased will be determined by the Company's management, in its discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The program will be funded using the Company's cash on hand and cash generated from operations. The program may be extended, suspended or discontinued at any time.
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Cognizant's single-minded passion is to dedicate our global technology and innovation know-how, our industry expertise and worldwide resources to working together with clients to make their businesses stronger. With more than 35 global delivery centers and over 53,000 employees, we combine a unique onsite/offshore delivery model infused by a distinct culture of customer satisfaction. A member of the NASDAQ-100 Index and S&P 500 Index, Cognizant is a Forbes Global 2000 company and is ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Info Tech 100, Hot Growth and Top 50 Performers listings. Visit us online at .
www.cognizant.com
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


