FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20071106083232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 6, 2007, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 6, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  November 6, 2007  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of IT and business process outsourcing services, today announced its financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007. All share and per share amounts for the prior year periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split, effective October 16, 2007.
Highlights  Third Quarter 2007
 
 
 
Revenue for the third quarter of 2007 increased to $558.8 million, up 8% sequentially from $516.5 million in the second quarter of 2007, and up 48% from $377.5 million in the third quarter of 2006. GAAP net income was $96.2 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, compared to $61.0 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.34. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.1%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $9.2 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 19.7%, at the upper end of the Company's targeted 19-20% range. The results include a one-time tax benefit of $2.8 million and a pre-tax foreign exchange gain of $2.6 million. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"We are very pleased with our third quarter financial performance, which was driven by strong organic revenue growth across our diverse platform of industries, service offerings and geographies," said Francisco D'Souza, President and CEO of Cognizant. "Our results continue to underscore the success of our focused investment strategy and our ability to capitalize on the most strategic opportunities for Cognizant's future growth. This is particularly evident in the growth of our European business, where revenue grew over 90% year-over year, and rose 24% sequentially to account for 17% of total revenue for the third quarter. Our performance during the quarter also further highlights our track record of operational excellence. We executed on our plan to offset the current macroeconomic headwinds and successfully delivered operating margins at the high end of our target range and EPS above our guidance."
Mr. D'Souza continued, "During our recently concluded North American user conference, the significant majority of customers responding to a survey indicated that they expect their 2008 IT budgets to stay unchanged or to increase. Furthermore, respondents indicated that an increasing portion of their overall IT budgets in 2008 will be directed to outsourcing. The results from this formal survey and other feedback from our clients give us optimism about our growth opportunities for 2008. As we move forward into next year, we are very confident in the long-term strength of our business model and the broad-based foundation we have in place to meet the sustained strong demand we anticipate from both new and existing customers."
Highlights  Nine Months Ended September 30, 2007
 
 
 
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 increased to $1.54 billion, up 54% from $999.8 million in the same period of 2006. GAAP net income was $253.9 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, compared to $163.3 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, in the same period of 2006. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.90. GAAP operating margin was 17.9%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $26.1 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 19.6%. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
2007 Outlook  Fourth Quarter & Full Year
Based on current visibility, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
"Our third quarter results are a testament to our ability to utilize operating levers to manage the business effectively while continuing to invest in Cognizant's growth platform," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial and Operating Officer. "During the quarter, we continued to focus on optimizing our business model to meet changing market conditions and delivered sequential margin expansion. We also ended the quarter with more than $800 million in cash and short-term investments on our balance sheet, leaving us well positioned with the financial flexibility to make ahead of the curve investments in our people, capabilities and infrastructure to further differentiate Cognizant in the marketplace. Based on our visibility into next year and initial feedback from our clients on anticipated spending plans for 2008, we are very confident in our growth potential moving forward."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call November 6, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call please dial (888) 652-6834 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, .Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "18784195" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on November 13, 2007.
www.cognizant.com
www.cognizant.com
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Cognizant's single-minded passion is to dedicate our global technology and innovation know-how, our industry expertise and worldwide resources to working together with clients to make their businesses stronger. With more than 35 global delivery centers and over 50,000 employees, we combine a unique onsite/offshore delivery model infused by a distinct culture of customer satisfaction. A member of the NASDAQ-100 Index and S&P 500 Index, Cognizant is a Forbes Global 2000 company and is ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Info Tech 100, Hot Growth and Top 50 Performers listings. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in
accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
We seek to manage the company to targeted operating margin, excluding stock-based compensation costs, of 19% to 20% of revenues. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are meaningful measures for investors to evaluate our financial performance. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of our operating results to that of our competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies and the variety of award types that companies can use under FAS 123R, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make additional comparisons between our operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share excludes a cost, namely, stock-based compensation, that is recurring. Stock-based compensation has been and will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Note:
 
 
 
Notes:
 


