FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20070608165222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Company") held on June 7, 2007 (the "Annual Meeting"), the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Incentive Plan") that (i) increased the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company reserved for issuance under the Incentive Plan by an additional 3,500,000 shares from 38,261,580 to 41,761,580 share of Class A Common Stock, and (ii) reconfirmed the various performance goals which may be utilized in establishing specific targets to be attained as a condition to the vesting of one or more cash or stock-based awards under the Incentive Plan so as to qualify the compensation attributable to those awards as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The following is a summary of certain principal features of the Incentive Plan. This summary is in all respects qualified by, and subject to, the actual terms and provisions of the Incentive Plan, a copy of which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1. All share numbers in this Form 8-K and the Incentive Plan reflect the two-for-one split of the Class A Common Stock effected on June 17, 2004 and all prior stock splits.
General
The purpose of the Incentive Plan is to:
 
 
Pursuant to the Incentive Plan, all of our employees, all of our non-employee Directors and all of our independent contractors are eligible to receive awards that may be stock-based or payable in cash. However, the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock which may be issued to any one participant over the term of the Incentive Plan is limited to 9,000,000 shares, subject to adjustment, for among other things, a merger, consolidation, reorganization, stock split, or other change in capital structure. Additionally, the maximum dollar amount which any participant may be paid in cash pursuant to awards under the Incentive Plan is limited to $10,000,000 over the term of the Plan. Stockholder approval of the amendment to the Incentive Plan also constituted re-approval of those limitations for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Such limitations will assure that any deductions to which we would otherwise be entitled upon the exercise of stock options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Incentive Plan will not be subject to the $1 million limitation on the income tax deductibility of compensation paid per executive officer imposed under Section 162(m). In addition, one or more other awards under the Incentive Plan may also qualify as performance-based compensation that is not subject to the Section 162(m) limitation, if the vesting of those awards
 
is tied to the attainment of one or more of the corporate performance milestones which are discussed below in the section entitled "Performance Vesting" and which were re-approved by the stockholders.
The Incentive Plan terminates on April 13, 2009, unless sooner terminated by the Board of Directors. The Board may amend the Incentive Plan, except that no such action can adversely affect awards previously granted. Without stockholder approval, the Board may not:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, stockholder approval is necessary if an amendment is required by the stock exchange or national market system on which the Class A Common Stock is listed. Further stockholder approval will be necessary if any future amendment is considered material in the reasonable judgment of the Compensation Committee.
The Incentive Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Incentive Plan, the Compensation Committee has the authority, among other things, to do the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eligibility
As of March 31, 2007, approximately 43,400 employees (including 5 executive officers), 4 non-employee Directors, together with an indeterminate number of independent contractors, were eligible to receive awards under the Incentive Plan.
Types of Awards
Several types of awards are provided for by the Incentive Plan. The awards may be measured in shares of Class A Common Stock or in cash. An award may be designated as a stock option, stock appreciation right, stock award, stock unit, performance share, performance unit or cash.
. The Incentive Plan provides for the granting of options intended to qualify as incentive stock options, or ISOs, as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The Incentive Plan also provides for the granting of non-qualified stock options, or NQSOs. ISOs may only be granted to employees, and, NQSOs may be granted to employees, non-employee Directors and independent contractors. Except in the event of option assumptions effected under the Incentive Plan in connection with our acquisitions of other companies or businesses, all ISOs and NSOs granted under the Incentive Plan must have an exercise price not less than 100% of fair market value of the underlying shares on the grant date. Unless the Compensation Committee specifies otherwise, options granted under the Incentive Plan will vest and become exercisable in four successive equal annual installments upon the optionee's completion of each year of service over the four-year period measured from the grant date. Under the Incentive Plan, ISOs and NQSOs expire 10 years after the grant, subject to earlier termination following cessation of employment.
Stock Options
. Stock appreciation rights ("SARs") entitle their recipients to receive payments in cash, Class A Common Stock or a combination as determined by the Compensation Committee. Any such payments will represent the appreciation in the market value of a specified number of shares from the date of grant until the date of exercise. Such appreciation will be measured by the excess of the fair market value on the exercise date over the exercise price (which may not less than the fair market value of the Class A Common Stock on the grant date of the SAR or the grant date of any award which the SAR replaces).
Stock Appreciation Rights
. A stock award consists of shares of Class A Common Stock, subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee. A grantee of a stock award has all of the rights of a holder of shares of Class A Common Stock, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee on the date of grant.
Stock Awards
. A stock unit is a hypothetical share of Class A Common Stock represented by a notional account maintained for the grantee of the stock unit. Stock units are subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee. A stock unit will provide for payment in shares of Class A Common Stock at such time as the award agreement shall specify. The Compensation Committee has the sole discretion to pay the stock unit in Class A Common Stock, cash or a combination.
Stock Units
 
. A performance share award consists of shares of Class A Common Stock, subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee, including, among other things, the designation of the performance goals which must be attained as a condition for determining the number and/or value of the performance shares that will be paid out or distributed. The Compensation Committee has the sole discretion to pay the performance share in Class A Common Stock, cash or a combination.
Performance Shares
. A performance unit award consists of hypothetical shares of Class A Common Stock represented by a notional account maintained for the grantee of the performance unit award. Performance units are subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee, including, among other things, the designation of the performance goal or goals which must be attained as a condition for determining the number and/or value of the performance units that will be earned. The Compensation Committee has the sole discretion to pay the performance units in Class A Common Stock, cash or a combination.
Performance Unit
. The Compensation Committee may grant cash awards subject to such terms and conditions as it determines appropriate.
Cash Awards
To assure that the compensation attributable to one or more awards made under the Incentive Plan will qualify as performance-based compensation that will not be subject to the $1.0 million limitation on the income tax deductibility of the compensation paid per covered executive officer imposed under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m), the Compensation Committee will also have the discretionary authority to structure one or more awards of stock, stock units, performance shares, performance units or cash so that the shares of Class A Common Stock subject to those particular awards or the cash value of those awards will vest only upon the achievement of certain pre-established corporate performance goals based on one or more of the following criteria, each of which was re-approved and reconfirmed by the stockholders upon their approval of the amendment to the Incentive Plan: net sales; pretax income before allocation of corporate overhead and bonus; budget; cash flow; earnings per share; net income; division, group or corporate financial goals; return on stockholders' equity; return on assets; attainment of strategic and operational initiatives; appreciation in and/or maintenance of the price of the Class A Common Stock or any of our other publicly-traded securities; market share; gross profits; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense; economic value-added models; comparisons with various stock market indices; increase in number of customers; and/or reductions in costs. The performance goals may be subject to adjustment for one or more of the following items: extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring items of gain, loss or expense; items of gain, loss or expense related to (a) the disposal of a business or discontinued operations or (b) the operations of any business acquired by the Company; accruals for reorganization and restructuring cost and expenses; and items of gain, loss or expense attributable to changes in tax laws and regulations, accounting principles or other applicable laws or regulations.
Performance Vesting.
Awards other than stock option grants and stock appreciation rights will be subject to the following minimum vesting periods: if such award is subject to performance criteria, vesting will occur over a performance period of at least 12 months in one or more installments over that period; and if such award is not subject to performance criteria, vesting will occur over a service period of at least three years, with such vesting to occur in equal installments over such three-year period.
Vesting Period for Certain Awards.
 
In the event a grantee's employment is terminated due to death or disability, all non-vested portions of awards are forfeited. All vested portions of stock options or SARs remain exercisable during the shorter of the remaining stated term of the stock option or SAR or twelve months following the date of death or disability. If a grantee's employment is terminated for cause, as defined in the Incentive Plan, all awards, whether vested or non-vested, are forfeited. If a grantee's employment is terminated for any other reason other than for cause or due to death or disability, all non-vested portions of awards are forfeited, and all vested portions of stock options or SARs remain exercisable during the shorter of the remaining stated term of the award or 90 days following the date of termination. Notwithstanding the above, the Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, provide that:
Termination of Employment.
 
 
 
However, no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of performance measures may be waived with respect to awards that are intended at the time of grant to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, except in the event of a change of control or certain involuntary terminations of service or employment prior to the completion of the performance period.
Generally, all awards under the Incentive Plan are nontransferable except by will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. Stock options and SARs are exercisable only by the grantee during his or her lifetime. The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, may permit the transferability of a stock option (other than an ISO) by a grantee to members of his or her immediate family or trusts or other similar entities for the benefit of such person.
Transferability.
Change in Control
Upon the occurrence of a change in control of Cognizant, as defined in the Incentive Plan, with certain exceptions, the Compensation Committee has the discretion to, among other things, accelerate the vesting of outstanding awards, cancel one or more outstanding awards in return for a cash payment equal to the value of the cancelled award or provide that an award be assumed by the entity which acquires control of us or be substituted by a similar award under such entity's compensation plan.
 
Changes in Capitalization
In the event of any of the following transactions affecting the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock without our receipt of consideration: any recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction or other change in corporate structure effected without our receipt of consideration or in the event of any spin-off transaction or extraordinary dividend or distribution resulting in a substantial reduction to the fair market value of the outstanding Class A Common Stock, equitable adjustments will be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Incentive Plan, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted awards under the Incentive Plan measured in terms of Class A Common Stock, (iii) the number and/or class of securities and the exercise price per share in effect under each outstanding stock option and stock appreciation right and (iv) the number and/or class of securities subject to each other outstanding award under the Incentive Plan and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share All such adjustments will be made in such manner as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate in order to preclude any dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Incentive Plan and the outstanding awards thereunder.
Federal Tax Aspects of the Incentive Plan
The following is a summary of the Federal income taxation treatment applicable to us and the participants who receive awards under the Incentive Plan.
. Options granted under the discretionary grant program may be either incentive stock options which satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or non-statutory options which are not intended to meet such requirements. The Federal income tax treatment for the two types of options differs as follows:
Option Grants
No taxable income is recognized by the optionee at the time of the option grant, and no taxable income is recognized for regular tax purposes at the time the option is exercised, although taxable income may arise at that time for alternative minimum tax purposes. The optionee will recognize taxable income in the year in which the purchased shares are sold or otherwise made the subject of certain other dispositions. For Federal tax purposes, dispositions are divided into two categories: (i) qualifying and (ii) disqualifying. A qualifying disposition occurs if the sale or other disposition is made more than two (2) years after the date the option for the shares involved in such sale or disposition is granted and more than one (1) year after the date the option is exercised for those shares. If the sale or disposition occurs before these two periods are satisfied, then a disqualifying disposition will result.
Incentive Options.
Upon a qualifying disposition, the optionee will recognize long-term capital gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the amount realized upon the sale or other disposition of the purchased shares over (ii) the exercise price paid for the shares. If there is a disqualifying disposition of the shares, then the excess of (i) the fair market value of those shares on the exercise date or (if less) the amount realized upon such sale or disposition over (ii) the exercise price paid for the shares will be taxable as ordinary income to the optionee. Any additional gain recognized upon the disposition will be a capital gain.
 
If the optionee makes a disqualifying disposition of the purchased shares, then we will be entitled to an income tax deduction, for the taxable year in which such disposition occurs, equal to the amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee as a result of the disposition. We will not be entitled to any income tax deduction if the optionee makes a qualifying disposition of the shares.
No taxable income is recognized by an optionee upon the grant of a non-statutory option. The optionee will in general recognize ordinary income, in the year in which the option is exercised, equal to the excess of the fair market value of the purchased shares on the exercise date over the exercise price paid for the shares, and we will be required to collect the withholding taxes applicable to such income from the optionee.
Non-Statutory Options.
We will be entitled to an income tax deduction equal to the amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee with respect to the exercised non-statutory option. The deduction will in general be allowed for our taxable year in which such ordinary income is recognized by the optionee.
. No taxable income is recognized upon receipt of a stock appreciation right. The holder will recognize ordinary income in the year in which the stock appreciation right is exercised, in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock on the exercise date over the base price in effect for the exercised right, and we will be required to collect the withholding taxes applicable to such income from the holder.
Stock Appreciation Rights
We will be entitled to an income tax deduction equal to the amount of ordinary income recognized by the holder in connection with the exercise of the stock appreciation right. The deduction will be allowed for the taxable year in which such ordinary income is recognized.
The recipient of unvested shares of Class A Common Stock issued under the Incentive Plan will not recognize any taxable income at the time those shares are issued but will have to report as ordinary income, as and when those shares subsequently vest, an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of the shares on the vesting date over (ii) the cash consideration (if any) paid for the shares. The recipient may, however, elect under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code to include as ordinary income in the year the unvested shares are issued an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of those shares on the issue date over (ii) the cash consideration (if any) paid for such shares. If the Section 83(b) election is made, the recipient will not recognize any additional income as and when the shares subsequently vest. We will be entitled to an income tax deduction equal to the amount of ordinary income recognized by the recipient with respect to the unvested shares. The deduction will in general be allowed for our taxable year in which such ordinary income is recognized by the recipient.
Restricted Stock Awards.
No taxable income is recognized upon receipt of a stock/phantom unit. The holder will recognize ordinary income in the year in which the shares subject to that unit are actually issued to the holder. The amount of that income will be equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of issuance, and we will be required to collect the withholding taxes applicable to such income from the holder. We will be entitled to an income tax deduction
Stock/Phantom Units.
 
equal to the amount of ordinary income recognized by the holder at the time the shares are issued. The deduction will be allowed for the taxable year in which such ordinary income is recognized.
We anticipate that any compensation deemed paid by us in connection with the disqualifying disposition of incentive stock option shares or the exercise of non-statutory options or stock appreciation rights will qualify as performance-based compensation for purposes of Code Section 162(m) and will not have to be taken into account for purposes of the $1 million limitation per covered individual on the deductibility of the compensation paid to certain of our executive officers.
Deductibility of Executive Compensation.
Accordingly, the compensation deemed paid with respect to options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Incentive Plan will remain deductible by us without limitation under Section 162(m). However, any compensation deemed paid by us in connection with other awards will be subject to the $1 million limitation, unless the vesting of those awards tied solely to one or more of the performance milestones described above under the section entitled "Performance Vesting".
Tax Withholding
The Compensation Committee may provide any or all holders of stock options, stock appreciation rights or other stock or stock-based awards under the Incentive Plan with the right to utilize either or both of the following methods to satisfy all or part of the federal and state income and employment withholding taxes to which they may become subject in connection with the exercise of their options or stock appreciation rights, the issuance to them of vested shares, or the subsequent vesting of any unvested shares issued to them:
 
 
Accounting Treatment
Pursuant to the accounting standards established by SFAS 123R, we are required to expense all stock-based compensation, commencing with the 2006 fiscal year which began on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, stock options and stock appreciation rights payable in stock which are granted to our employees and non-employee Directors have to be valued at fair value as of the grant date under an appropriate valuation formula, and that value then has to be charged as a direct compensation expense against our reported earnings over the designated vesting period of the award. Similar option expensing was required for any unvested options
 
outstanding on the January 1, 2006 effective date, with the grant date fair value of those unvested options to be expensed against our reported earnings over the remaining vesting period. For shares issuable upon the vesting of stock/phantom units awarded under the Incentive Plan, we are required to amortize over the vesting period a compensation cost equal to the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of the award. If any shares are unvested at the time of their direct issuance under the Incentive Plan, then the fair market value of those shares at that time will be charged to our reported earnings ratably over the vesting period. The issuance of a fully-vested stock bonus will result in an immediate charge to our earnings equal to the fair market value of the bonus shares on the issuance date.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted to non-employee consultants will result in a direct charge to our reported earnings based on the fair value of the grant measured on the vesting date of each installment of the underlying shares. Accordingly, such charge will take into account the appreciation in the fair value of the grant over the period between the grant date and the vesting date of each installment comprising that grant.
 
In addition to the approval of an amendment to the Incentive Plan as set forth in Item 5.02 above, at the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company reelected Lakshmi Narayanan and John E. Klein as Class I directors to serve until the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
At the Annual Meeting, stockholders also ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2007.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 8, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
1.0 DEFINITIONS
The following terms shall have the following meanings unless the context indicates otherwise:
shall mean either a Stock Option, an SAR, a Stock Award, a Stock Unit, a Performance Share, a Performance Unit, or a Cash Award.
1.1 "Award"
shall mean a written agreement between the Company and the Participant that establishes the terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations applicable to an Award in addition to those established by the Plan and by the Committee's exercise of its administrative powers.
1.2 "Award Agreement"
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
1.3 "Board"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an award of cash as described in Section 11 below.
1.4 "Cash Award"
shall mean (i) willful malfeasance or willful misconduct by the Employee in connection with his employment, (ii) continuing failure to perform such duties as are requested by the Company and/or its subsidiaries, (iii) failure by the Employee to observe material policies of the Company and/or its subsidiaries applicable to the Employee or (iv) the commission by the Employee of (x) any felony or (y) any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
1.5 "Cause"
shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
1.6 "Change in Control of the Company"
any Person, as such term is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act, or any successor section thereto, (other than (i) the Company, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, (iii) any Subsidiaries of the Company, (iv) any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company or (v) IMS Health Incorporated or its Subsidiaries), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 35% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities; provided however, that the acquisition of securities in a bona fide public offering or private placement of securities by an investor who is acquiring such securities for passive investment purposes only shall not constitute a "Change in Control".
(a)
during any period of twenty-four months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director (other than (i) a director nominated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 1.6 (a), (c) or (d) of the Plan, (ii) a director nominated by any Person (including the Company) who publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions (including, but not limited to, an actual or threatened proxy contest) which if consummated would constitute a Change in Control or (iii) a director nominated by any Person who is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's securities) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders is or was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously, so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
(b)
the effective date or date of consummation of any transaction or series of transactions (other than a transaction to which only the Company and one or more of its subsidiaries are parties) under which the Company is merged or consolidated with any other company, other than a merger or consolidation (i) which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 66
(c)
2
/ 3 % of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and (ii) after which no Person holds 35% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company or such surviving entity; or
the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;
(d)
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
1.7 "Code"
shall mean (i) the Board or (ii) a committee or subcommittee of the Board appointed by the Board from among its members. The Committee may be the Board's Compensation Committee. Unless the Board determines otherwise, the Committee shall be comprised solely of not less than two members who each shall qualify as:
1.8 "Committee"
a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) (or any successor rule) under the Exchange Act, and
(a)
an "outside director" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(b)
shall mean the Class A common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company.
1.9 "Common Stock"
shall mean Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
1.10 "Company"
shall mean shall mean the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which constitutes a permanent and total disability, as defined in Section 22(e) (3) of the Code (or any successor section thereto). The determination whether a Participant has suffered a Disability shall be made by the Committee based upon such evidence as it deems necessary and appropriate, and shall be conclusive and binding on the Participant. A Participant shall not be considered disabled unless he or she furnishes such medical or other evidence of the existence of the Disability as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may require.
1.11 "Disability"
shall mean the right to receive an amount equal to the amount of any dividend paid with respect to a share of Common Stock multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock underlying or with respect to a Stock Option, a SAR, a Stock Unit or a Performance Unit, and which shall be payable in cash, in Common Stock, in the form of Stock Units or Performance Units, or a combination of any or all of the foregoing.
1.12 "Dividend Equivalent Right"
shall mean the date on which the Plan is adopted by the Board.
1.13 "Effective Date"
shall mean an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h).
1.14 "Employee"
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including applicable regulations thereunder.
1.15 "Exchange Act"
shall mean:
1.16 "Fair Market Value of the Common Stock"
if the Common Stock is readily tradable on a national securities exchange or other market system, the closing price of the Common Stock on the date of calculation (or on the last preceding trading date if Common Stock was not traded on such date), or
(a)
if the Common Stock is not readily tradable on a national securities exchange or other market system: (i) the book value of a share of Common Stock as of the last day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of calculation; or (ii) any other value as otherwise determined in good faith by the Board.
(b)
shall mean a person (other than a person who is an Employee or a Nonemployee Director) or an entity that renders services to the Company.
1.17 "Independent Contractor"
shall mean an "incentive stock option" as such term is used in Code Section 422.
1.18 "ISO"
shall mean a member of the Board who is not an Employee.
1.19 "Nonemployee Director"
shall mean a Stock Option that does not qualify as an ISO.
1.20 "Nonqualified Stock Option"
shall mean any Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor to whom an Award has been granted by the Committee under the Plan.
1.21 "Participant"
shall mean an Award subject to the achievement of certain performance goal or goals as described in Section 12 below.
1.22 "Performance-Based Award"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 10.1 below.
1.23 "Performance Share"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 10.2 below.
1.24 "Performance Unit"
shall mean the Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan.
1.25 "Plan"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of a stock appreciation right as described in Section 8 below.
1.26 "SAR"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award of Common Stock as described in Section 9.1 below.
1.27 "Stock Award"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an option to purchase Common Stock as described in Section 7 below.
1.28 "Stock Option"
shall mean the grant by the Committee to a Participant of an Award as described in Section 9.2 below.
1.29 "Stock Unit"
shall mean a corporation of which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the Voting Stock or any other business entity in which the Company directly or indirectly has an ownership interest of more than 50 percent.
1.30 "Subsidiary"
shall mean the regulations promulgated under the Code by the United States Department of the Treasury, as amended from time to time.
1.31 "Treasury Regulations"
shall mean:
1.32 "Vest"
with respect to Stock Options and SARs, when the Stock Option or SAR (or a portion of such Stock Option or SAR) first becomes exercisable and remains exercisable subject to the terms and conditions of such Stock Option or SAR; or
(a)
with respect to Awards other than Stock Options and SARs, when the Participant has:
(b)
an unrestricted right, title and interest to receive the compensation (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) attributable to an Award (or a portion of such Award) or to otherwise enjoy the benefits underlying such Award; and
(i)
a right to transfer an Award subject to no Company-imposed restrictions or limitations other than restrictions and/or limitations imposed by Section 14 below.
(ii)
shall mean the date or dates on which an Award Vests.
1.33 "Vesting Date"
shall mean the capital stock of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances, in the absence of contingencies, to elect the directors of a corporation.
1.34 "Voting Stock"
2.0 PURPOSE AND TERM OF PLAN
The purpose of the Plan is to motivate certain Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors to put forth maximum efforts toward the growth, profitability, and success of the Company and Subsidiaries by providing incentives to such Employees, Nonemployee Directors and
2.1 PURPOSE.
Independent Contractors either through cash payments and/or through the ownership and performance of the Common Stock. In addition, the Plan is intended to provide incentives which will attract and retain highly qualified individuals as Employees and Nonemployee Directors and to assist in aligning the interests of such Employees and Nonemployee Directors with those of its stockholders.
The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date; provided, however, that the Plan shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company at an annual meeting or any special meeting of stockholders of the Company within 12 months before or after the Effective Date, and such approval by the stockholders of the Company shall be a condition to the right of each Participant to receive Awards hereunder. Any Award granted under the Plan prior to the approval by the stockholders of the Company shall be effective as of the date of grant (unless the Committee specifies otherwise at the time of grant), but no such Award may Vest, be paid out, or otherwise be disposed of prior to such stockholder approval. If the stockholders of the Company fail to approve the Plan in accordance with this Section 2.2, any Award granted under the Plan shall be cancelled. The Plan shall terminate on the 10th anniversary of the Effective Date (unless sooner terminated by the Board under Section 16.1 below.
2.2 TERM.
All share numbers in this April 26, 2007 Amended and Restated Plan reflect the two (2)-for one (1) split of the Common Stock effected on June 17, 2004 and all prior stock splits.
2.3 STOCK SPLITS.
3.0 ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
All Employees of the Company, all Nonemployee Directors and all Independent Contractors shall be eligible to participate in the Plan and to receive Awards.
3.1 ELIGIBILITY.
Participants shall consist of such Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors as the Committee in its sole discretion designates to receive Awards under the Plan. Designation of a Participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person or entity to receive an Award in any other year or, once designated, to receive the same type or amount of Award as granted to the Participant in any other year. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting Participants and in determining the type and amount of their respective Awards.
3.2 PARTICIPATION.
4.0 ADMINISTRATION
The Committee shall have the responsibility, in its sole discretion, to control, operate, manage and administer the Plan in accordance with its terms.
4.1 RESPONSIBILITY.
Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement which shall be signed by the Committee and the Participant; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between a provision of the Plan and any provision of an Award Agreement, the provision of the Plan shall prevail.
4.2 AWARD AGREEMENT.
The Committee shall have all the discretionary authority that may be necessary or helpful to enable it to discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Plan, including but not limited to the following:
4.3 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE.
to determine eligibility for participation in the Plan;
(a)
to determine eligibility for and the type and size of an Award granted under the Plan;
(b)
to supply any omission, correct any defect, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in such manner and to such extent as it shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion to carry the same into effect;
(c)
to issue administrative guidelines as an aid to administer the Plan and make changes in such guidelines as it from time to time deems proper;
(d)
to make rules for carrying out and administering the Plan and make changes in such rules as it from time to time deems proper;
(e)
to the extent permitted under the Plan, grant waivers of Plan terms, conditions, restrictions, and limitations;
(f)
to accelerate the Vesting of any Award when such action or actions would be in the best interest of the Company;
(g)
to grant Award in replacement of Awards previously granted under this Plan or any other executive compensation plan of the Company; and
(h)
to take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
(i)
The Committee may act only by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee may be made, without a meeting, by a writing or writings signed by all of the members of the Committee. In addition, the Committee may authorize any one or more of its members to execute and deliver documents on behalf of the Committee.
4.4 ACTION BY THE COMMITTEE.
The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members, or to one or more agents, such administrative duties as it may deem advisable; provided, however, that any such delegation shall be in writing. In addition, the Committee, or any person to whom it has delegated duties under this Section 4.5, may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The Committee may employ such legal or other counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion or computation received from any such counsel, consultant or agent. Expenses incurred by the Committee in the engagement of such counsel, consultant or agent shall be paid by the Company, or the Subsidiary whose employees have benefited from the Plan, as determined by the Committee.
4.5 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
All determinations and interpretations made by the Committee shall be binding and conclusive on all Participants and their heirs, successors, and legal representatives.
4.6 DETERMINATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE.
No member of the Board, no member of the Committee and no employee of the Company shall be liable for any act or failure to act hereunder, except in circumstances involving his or her bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or for any act or failure to act hereunder by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the administration of the Plan have been delegated.
4.7 LIABILITY.
The Company shall indemnify members of the Committee and any agent of the Committee who is an employee of the Company, against any and all liabilities or expenses to which they may be subjected by reason of any act or failure to act with respect to their duties on behalf of the Plan, except in circumstances involving such person's bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
4.8 INDEMNIFICATION.
5.0 SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN
The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which shall be available for grants or payments of Awards under the Plan during its term shall be 41,761,580 shares. Such share reserve includes a share increase of 3,500,000 shares authorized by the Board on April 26, 2007, subject to stockholder approval at the 2007 Annual Meeting. The shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued shares, shares of issued stock held in the Company's treasury, or both, at the discretion of the Company, and subject to any adjustments made in accordance with Section 5.2 below. Any shares of Common Stock underlying Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without the issuance of such shares shall again be available for grants of Awards under the Plan. Awards that are payable only in cash are not subject to this Section 5.1.
5.1 AVAILABLE SHARES.
In the event of any of the following transactions affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration: a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, extraordinary distribution (whether payable in cash, securities or other property), dividend in kind or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, or in the event of a substantial reduction in the value of the outstanding Common Stock resulting from a spin-off transaction or
5.2 ADJUSTMENT TO SHARES.
extraordinary dividend, equitable adjustments shall be made by the Committee to (i) the maximum number and kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan, (ii) the number and/or class of securities subject to each outstanding Award under the Plan, (iii) the maximum number and kind of shares for which Awards measured in shares of Common Stock may be made to any one Participant over the term of the Plan, (iv) the exercise price applicable to outstanding Stock Options and (v) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards. The foregoing adjustments shall be made successively each time any such change shall occur. To the extent the foregoing adjustments are to be made to outstanding Awards, such adjustments shall be effected by the Committee in such manner as the Committee deems appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits under those Awards. The adjustments determined by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. Appropriate adjustments and modifications may also, in the discretion of the Committee, be made on an equitable basis to any other terms of outstanding Awards under the Plan to reflect such changes or distributions, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of performance periods; provided, however, that with respect to Performance-Based Awards, such modifications and/or changes do not disqualify the compensation attributable to such Awards as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m). In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments to the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan, (i) any adjustment with respect to an ISO due to a change or distribution described in this Section 5.2 shall comply with the rules of Code Section 424(a), and in no event shall any adjustment be made which would render any ISO granted hereunder other than an incentive stock option for purposes of Code Section 422 and (ii) in the event of a Change in Control, the provisions of Section 13 shall be controlling.
6.0 MAXIMUM INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock underlying all Awards measured in shares of Common Stock (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) that may be granted to any single Participant during the life of the Plan shall be 9,000,000 shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.2 above. For purposes of the preceding sentence, such Awards that are cancelled or repriced shall continue to be counted in determining such maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted to any single Participant during the life of the Plan.
6.1 MAXIMUM AGGREGATE NUMBER OF SHARES UNDERLYING STOCK-BASED AWARDS GRANTED UNDER THE PLAN TO ANY SINGLE PARTICIPANT.
The maximum dollar amount that may be paid to any single Participant with respect to all Awards measured in cash (whether payable in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both) during the life of the Plan shall be $10,000,000.
6.2 MAXIMUM DOLLAR AMOUNT UNDERLYING CASH-BASED AWARDS GRANTED UNDER THE PLAN TO ANY SINGLE PARTICIPANT.
7.0 STOCK OPTIONS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Options to Employees, Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors on or after the Effective Date. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine the Employees, the Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors who will receive Stock Options and the number of shares of Common Stock underlying each Stock Option. With respect to Employees who become Participants, the Committee may grant such Participants ISOs or Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of both. With respect to Nonemployee Directors and Independent Contractors who become Participants, the Committee may grant such Participants only Nonqualified Stock Options. Each Stock Option shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee may impose from time to time. In addition, each Stock Option shall be subject to the following terms and conditions set forth in Sections 7.2 through 7.8 below.
7.1 IN GENERAL.
The Committee shall specify the exercise price of each Stock Option in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that the exercise price of any ISO or Nonqualified Stock Option shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant.
7.2 EXERCISE PRICE.
The Committee shall specify the term of each Stock Option in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that (i) no ISO shall be exercised after the 10th anniversary of the date of grant of such ISO and (ii) no Nonqualified Stock Option shall be exercised after the 10th anniversary of the date of grant of such Nonqualified Stock Option. Each Stock Option shall terminate at such earlier times and upon such conditions or circumstances as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, set forth in the Award Agreement on the date of grant.
7.3 TERM OF STOCK OPTION.
The Committee shall specify the Vesting Date with respect to each Stock Option in the Award Agreement. The Committee may grant Stock Options that are Vested, either in whole or in part, on the date of grant. If the Committee fails to specify a Vesting Date in the Award Agreement, 25 percent of such Stock Option shall become exercisable on each of the first 4 anniversaries of the date of grant and shall remain exercisable following such anniversary date until the Stock Option expires in accordance with its terms under the Award Agreement or under the terms of the Plan. The Vesting of a Stock Option may be subject to such other terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee, including, without limitation, accelerating the Vesting if certain performance goals are achieved.
7.4 VESTING DATE.
The Stock Option exercise price may be paid in cash or, in the sole discretion of the Committee, by the delivery of shares of Common Stock then owned by the Participant, by the withholding of shares of Common Stock for which a Stock Option is exercisable, or by a combination of these methods. In the sole discretion of the Committee, payment may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the exercise price. To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms. The Committee may prescribe any other method of paying the exercise price that it determines to be consistent with applicable law and the purpose of the Plan, including, without limitation, in lieu of the exercise of a Stock Option by delivery of shares of Common Stock then owned by a Participant, providing the Company with a notarized statement attesting to the number of shares owned by the Participant, where upon verification by the Company, the Company would issue to the Participant only the number of incremental shares to which the Participant is entitled upon exercise of the Stock Option. In determining which methods a Participant may utilize to pay the exercise price, the Committee may consider such factors as it determines are appropriate; provided, however, that with respect to ISOs, all such discretionary determinations by the Committee shall be made at the time of grant and specified in the Award Agreement.
7.5 EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS.
In addition to being subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 7, ISOs shall comply with all other requirements under Code Section 422. Accordingly, ISOs may be granted only to Participants who are employees (as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h)) of the Company or of any "Parent Corporation" (as defined in Code Section 424(e)) or of any "Subsidiary Corporation" (as defined in Code Section 424(f)) on the date of grant. The aggregate market value (determined as of the time the ISO is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which ISOs (under all option plans of the Company and of any Parent Corporation and of any Subsidiary Corporation) are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000. For purposes of the preceding sentence, ISOs shall be taken into account in the order in which they are granted. ISOs shall not be transferable by the Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable, during the Participant's lifetime, only by such Participant. The Committee shall not grant ISOs to any Employee who, at the time the ISO is granted, owns stock possessing (after the application of the attribution rules of Code Section 424(d)) more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Parent Corporation or of any Subsidiary Corporation unless the exercise price of the ISO is fixed at not less than 110 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and the exercise of such ISO is prohibited by its terms after the 5th anniversary of the ISO's date of grant. In addition, no ISO shall be issued to a Participant in tandem with a Nonqualified Stock Option issued to such Participant in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 14a.422A-1, Q/A-39.
7.6 RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO ISOS.
The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreements or otherwise, establish such other terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, of any Stock Option, provided they are not inconsistent with the Plan, including, without limitation, the requirement that the Participant not engage in competition with the Company.
7.7 ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant a Stock Option to any holder of an option (hereinafter referred to as an "Original Option") to purchase shares of the stock of any corporation:
7.8 CONVERSION STOCK OPTIONS.
the stock or assets of which were acquired, directly or indirectly, by the Company or any Subsidiary, or
(a)
which was merged with and into the Company or a Subsidiary,
(b)
so that the Original Option is converted into a Stock Option (hereinafter referred to as a "Conversion Stock Option"); provided, however, that such Conversion Stock Option as of the date of its grant (the "Conversion Stock Option Grant Date") shall have the same economic value as the Original Option as of the Conversion Stock Option Grant Date. In addition, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion determines otherwise, a Conversion Stock Option which is converting an Original Option intended to qualify as an ISO shall have the same terms and conditions as applicable to the Original Option in accordance with Code Section 424 and the Treasury Regulations thereunder so that the conversion (x) is treated as the issuance or assumption of a stock option under Code Section 424(a) and (y) is not treated as a modification, extension or renewal of a stock option under Code Section 424(h).
8.0 SARS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant SARs to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors. An SAR is a right to receive a payment in cash, Common Stock or a combination of both, in an amount equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, or other specified valuation, of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over (y) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, or other specified valuation (which shall be no less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock), of such shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is granted, all as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that if a SAR is granted retroactively in tandem with or in substitution for a Stock Option, the designated Fair Market Value of the Common Stock in the Award Agreement may be the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date such Stock Option was granted. Each SAR shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including, but not limited to, a provision that automatically converts a SAR into a Stock Option on a conversion date specified at the time of grant, as the Committee shall impose from time to time in its sole discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan.
8.1 IN GENERAL.
9.0 STOCK AWARDS AND STOCK UNITS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Awards to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Stock Award shall consist of shares of Common Stock which shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion determines appropriate including, without limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such shares, the Vesting Date with respect to such shares, and the right of the Company to reacquire such shares for no consideration upon termination of the Participant's employment within specified periods. The Committee may require the Participant to deliver a duly signed stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Stock covered by such Stock Award and/or that the stock certificates evidencing such shares be held in custody or bear restrictive legends until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed. With respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock, including the right to receive dividends and to vote the shares, unless the Committee determines otherwise on the date of grant.
9.1 STOCK AWARDS.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractor Stock Units as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Stock Unit is a hypothetical share of Common Stock represented by a notional account established and maintained (or caused to be established or maintained) by the Company for such Participant who receives a grant of Stock Units. Stock Units shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without
9.2 STOCK UNITS.
limitation, determinations of the Vesting Date with respect to such Stock Units and the criteria for the Vesting of such Stock Units. A Stock Unit granted by the Committee shall provide for payment in shares of Common Stock at such time or times as the Award Agreement shall specify. The Committee shall determine whether a Participant who has been granted a Stock Unit shall also be entitled to a Dividend Equivalent Right.
Subject to a Participant's election to defer in accordance with Section 17.3 below, upon the Vesting of a Stock Unit, the shares of Common Stock representing the Stock Unit shall be distributed to the Participant, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, provides for the payment of the Stock Unit in cash (or partly in cash and partly in shares of Common Stock) equal to the value of the shares of Common Stock which would otherwise be distributed to the Participant.
9.3 PAYOUT OF STOCK UNITS.
10.0 PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Performance Shares to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Performance Share shall consist of a share or shares of Common Stock which shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the performance goal or goals which, depending on the extent to which such goals are met, will determine the number and/or value of the Performance Shares that will be paid out or distributed to the Participant who has been granted Performance Shares. Performance goals may be based on, without limitation, Company-wide, divisional and/or individual performance, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine, and may be based on the performance measures listed in Section 12.3 below.
10.1 PERFORMANCE SHARES.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors Performance Units as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Performance Unit is a hypothetical share or shares of Common Stock represented by a notional account which shall be established and maintained (or caused to be established or maintained) by the Company for such Participant who receives a grant of Performance Units. Performance Units shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the performance goal or goals which, depending on the extent to which such goals are met, will determine the number and/or value of the Performance Units that will be accrued with respect to the Participant who has been granted Performance Units. Performance goals may be based on, without limitation, Company-wide, divisional and/or individual performance, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine, and may be based on the performance measures listed in Section 12.3 below.
10.2 PERFORMANCE UNITS.
With respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units that are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Awards (as described in Section 12 below), the Committee shall have the authority at any time to make adjustments to performance goals for any outstanding Performance Shares or Performance Units which the Committee deems necessary or desirable unless at the time of establishment of the performance goals the Committee shall have precluded its authority to make such adjustments.
10.3 ADJUSTMENT OF PERFORMANCE GOALS.
Subject to a Participant's election to defer in accordance with Section 17.3 below, upon the Vesting of a Performance Share or a Performance Unit, the shares of Common Stock representing the Performance Share or the Performance Unit shall be distributed to the Participant, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, provides for the payment of the Performance Share or a Performance Unit in cash (or partly in cash and partly in shares of Common Stock) equal to the value of the shares of Common Stock which would otherwise be distributed to the Participant.
10.4 PAYOUT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES OR PERFORMANCE UNITS.
11.0 CASH AWARDS
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Cash Awards to Employees, Nonemployee Directors, and/or Independent Contractors as additional compensation or in lieu of other compensation for services to the Company. A Cash Award shall be subject to such terms and conditions as
11.1 IN GENERAL.
the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate including, without limitation, determining the Vesting Date with respect to such Cash Award, the criteria for the Vesting of such Cash Award, and the right of the Company to require the Participant to repay the Cash Award (with or without interest) upon termination of the Participant's employment within specified periods.
12.0 PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate Awards granted under the Plan as Performance-Based Awards (as defined below) if it determines that such compensation might not be tax deductible by the Company due to the deduction limitation imposed by Code Section 162(m). Accordingly, an Award granted under the Plan may be granted in such a manner that the compensation attributable to such Award is intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" (as such term is used in Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder) and thus be exempt from the deduction limitation imposed by Code Section 162(m) ("Performance-Based Awards").
12.1 IN GENERAL.
Awards shall only qualify as Performance-Based Awards under the Plan if:
12.2 QUALIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS.
at the time of grant the Committee is comprised solely of two or more "outside directors" (as such term is used in Code Section 162(m) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder);
(a)
with respect to either the granting or Vesting of an Award (other than (i) a Nonqualified Stock Option or (ii) an SAR, which are granted with an exercise price at or above the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant), such Award is subject to the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the performance measures specified in Section 12.3 below;
(b)
the Committee establishes in writing (i) the objective performance-based goals applicable to a given performance period and (ii) the individual employees or class of employees to which such performance-based goals apply no later than 90 days after the commencement of such performance period (but in no event after 25 percent of such performance period has elapsed);
(c) 
no compensation attributable to a Performance-Based Award will be paid to or otherwise received by a Participant until the Committee certifies in writing that the performance goal or goals (and any other material terms) applicable to such performance period have been satisfied;
(d)
after the establishment of a performance goal, the Committee shall not revise such performance goal (unless such revision will not disqualify compensation attributable to the Award as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m)) or increase the amount of compensation payable with respect to such Award upon the attainment of such performance goal; and
(e)
no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of such performance goals may be waived with respect to Performance-Based Awards, except in the event of a Change in Control or certain involuntary terminations of employment or service prior to the completion of the performance period.
(f)
The Committee may use the following performance measures (either individually or in any combination) to set performance goals with respect to Awards intended to qualify as Performance-Based Awards: net sales; pretax income before allocation of corporate overhead and bonus; budget; cash flow; earnings per share; net income; division, group or corporate financial goals; return on stockholders' equity; return on assets; attainment of strategic and operational initiatives; appreciation in and/or maintenance of the price of the Common Stock or any other publicly-traded securities of the Company; market share; gross profits; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense; economic value-added models; comparisons with various stock market indices; increase in number of customers; and/or reductions in costs. The performance measures may, at the time they are established for one or more such Performance-Based Awards, be subject to adjustment for one or more of the following items: extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring items of gain, loss or expense; items of gain, loss or expense related to (a) the disposal of a business or discontinued operations or (b) the operations of any business acquired by the Company; accruals for reorganization and restructuring cost and expenses; and items of gain, loss or expense attributable to changes in tax laws and regulations, accounting principles or other applicable laws or regulations.
12.3 PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
As required by Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(vi), the material terms of performance goals as described in this Section 12 shall be disclosed to and reapproved by the Company's stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the 5th year following the year in which the Company's stockholders previously approved such performance goals.
12.4 STOCKHOLDER REAPPROVAL.
13.0 CHANGE IN CONTROL
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if there is a Change in Control of the Company, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may take such actions as it deems appropriate with respect to outstanding Awards, including, without limitation, accelerating the Vesting Date and/or payout of such Awards; provided, however, that such action shall not conflict with any provision contained in an Award Agreement unless such provision is amended in accordance with Section 16.3 below.
13.1 ACCELERATED VESTING.
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, all or a portion of certain outstanding Awards shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the holders, and each such holder shall receive an amount equal to the value of such Award on the date of the change in control, and with respect to each share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Option or SAR, an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the occurrence of such change in control over the exercise price per share of such Stock Option or SAR. Such amount shall be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of property (including the property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
13.2 CASHOUT.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that an Award may be assumed by any entity which acquires control of the Company or may be substituted by a similar award under such entity's compensation plans.
13.3 ASSUMPTION OR SUBSTITUTION OF AWARDS.
14.0 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT IF PARTICIPANT IS AN EMPLOYEE
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated due to death or Disability:
14.1 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO DEATH OR DISABILITY.
all non-Vested portions of Awards held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date; and
(a)
all Vested portions of Stock Options and SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, shall remain exercisable until the earlier of:
(b)
the end of the 12-month period following the date of the Participant's death or the date of the termination of his or her employment, as the case may be, or
(i)
the date the Stock Option or SAR would otherwise expire.
(ii)
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company for cause, all Awards held by a Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment for cause, whether Vested or non-Vested, shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date.
14.2 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE.
Subject to any written agreement between the Company and a Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated for any reason other than for cause or other than due to death or Disability:
14.3 OTHER TERMINATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
all non-Vested portions of Awards held by the Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately be forfeited by such Participant as of such date; and
(a)
all Vested portions of Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the termination of his or her employment shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) the end of the 90-day period following the date of the termination of the Participant's employment or (ii) the date the Stock Option or SAR would otherwise expire.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that:
14.4 COMMITTEE DISCRETION.
any or all non-Vested portions of Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately become exercisable as of such date and, except with respect to ISOs, shall remain exercisable until a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Stock Option or SAR is scheduled to expire;
(a)
any or all Vested portions of Nonqualified Stock Options and/or SARs held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall remain exercisable until a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Stock Option or SAR is scheduled to expire; and/or
(b)
any or all non-Vested portions of Stock Awards, Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, and/or Cash Awards held by the Participant on the date of the Participant's death and/or the date of the termination of his or her employment shall immediately Vest or shall become Vested on a date that occurs on or prior to the date the Award is scheduled to vest; provided, however, that the Committee shall not exercise such discretion with respect to any Performance-Based Award if and to the extent the provision for such accelerated vesting would otherwise disqualify the compensation attributable to that Award as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, (i) the provisions contained in this Section 14 shall be applied to an ISO only if the application of such provision maintains the treatment of such ISO as an ISO and (ii) the exercise period of an ISO in the event of a termination of the Participant's employment due to Disability provided in Section 14.1 above shall be applied only if the Participant is "permanently and totally disabled" (as such term is defined in Code Section 22(e)(3)).
14.5 ISOS.
15.0 TAXES
With respect to Employees, the Company, or the applicable Subsidiary, may require a Participant who has become vested in his or her Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit granted hereunder, or who exercises a Stock Option or SAR granted hereunder to reimburse the corporation which employs such Participant for any taxes required by any governmental regulatory authority to be withheld or otherwise deducted and paid by such corporation or entity in respect of the issuance or disposition of such shares or the payment of any amounts. In lieu thereof, the corporation or entity which employs such Participant shall have the right to withhold the amount of such taxes from any other sums due or to become due from such corporation or entity to the Participant upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall prescribe. The corporation or entity that employs such Participant may, in its discretion, hold the stock certificate to which such Participant is entitled upon the vesting of a Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit or the exercise of a Stock Option or SAR as security for the payment of such withholding tax liability, until cash sufficient to pay that liability has been accumulated.
15.1 WITHHOLDING TAXES.
With respect to Employees, at any time that the Company, Subsidiary or other entity that employs such Participant becomes subject to a withholding obligation under applicable law with respect to the vesting of a Stock Award, Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit or the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option (the "Tax Date"), except as set forth below, a holder of such Award may elect to satisfy, in whole or in part, the holder's related personal tax liabilities (an "Election") by (i) directing the Company, Subsidiary or other entity that employs such Participant to withhold from shares issuable in connection with such vesting or exercise either a specified number of shares or shares of Common Stock having a specified value (in each case limited to the related minimum statutory personal withholding tax liabilities with respect to the applicable taxing jurisdiction so as to preclude any "liability" accounting treatment for the Award pursuant to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), (ii) tendering shares of
15.2 USE OF COMMON STOCK TO SATISFY WITHHOLDING OBLIGATION.
Common Stock previously issued pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option or other shares of the Common Stock owned by the holder, or (iii) combining any or all of the foregoing Elections in any fashion. An Election shall be irrevocable. The withheld shares and other shares of Common Stock tendered in payment shall be valued at their Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Tax Date. The Committee may disapprove of any Election, suspend or terminate the right to make Elections or provide that the right to make Elections shall not apply to particular shares or exercises. The Committee may impose any additional conditions or restrictions on the right to make an Election as it shall deem appropriate, including conditions or restrictions with respect to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
No person connected with the Plan in any capacity, including, but not limited to, the Company and any Subsidiary and their directors, officers, agents and employees makes any representation, commitment, or guarantee that any tax treatment, including, but not limited to, federal, state and local income, estate and gift tax treatment, will be applicable with respect to amounts deferred under the Plan, or paid to or for the benefit of a Participant under the Plan, or that such tax treatment will apply to or be available to a Participant on account of participation in the Plan.
15.3 NO GUARANTEE OF TAX CONSEQUENCES.
16.0 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time with or without prior notice; provided, however, that no action authorized by this Section 16.1 shall reduce the amount of any outstanding Award or change the terms and conditions thereof without the Participant's consent.
16.1 TERMINATION OF PLAN.
The Board may amend the Plan at any time with or without prior notice; provided, however, that no action authorized by this Section 16.2 shall reduce the amount of any outstanding Award or change the terms and conditions thereof without the Participant's consent. No amendment of the Plan shall, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company:
16.2 AMENDMENT OF PLAN.
increase the total number of shares which may be issued under the Plan;
(a)
increase the maximum number of shares with respect to all Awards measured in Common Stock that may be granted to any individual under the Plan;
(b)
increase the maximum dollar amount that may be paid with respect to all Awards measured in cash; or
(c)
modify the requirements as to eligibility for Awards under the Plan.
(d)
In addition, the Plan shall not be amended without the approval of such amendment by the Company's stockholders if such amendment is (i) required under the rules and regulations of the stock exchange or national market system on which the Common Stock is listed or (ii) otherwise considered material in the reasonable judgment of the Committee.
The Committee may amend or modify any Award Agreement at any time by mutual agreement between the Committee and the Participant or such other persons as may then have an interest therein. In addition, by mutual agreement between the Committee and a Participant or such other persons as may then have an interest therein, Awards may be granted to an Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor in substitution and exchange for, and in cancellation of, any Awards previously granted to such Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor under the Plan, or any award previously granted to such Employee, Nonemployee Director or Independent Contractor under any other present or future plan of the Company or any present or future plan of an entity which (i) is purchased by the Company, (ii) purchases the Company, or (iii) merges into or with the Company.
16.3 AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION OF AWARD AGREEMENTS.
17.0 MISCELLANEOUS
Awards granted under the Plan may also be subject to such other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Award granted to any other Participant) as the Committee determines on the date of grant to be appropriate, including, without limitation, for the installment purchase of Common Stock under Stock Options, to assist the Participant in financing the acquisition of Common Stock, for the forfeiture of, or restrictions on resale or other disposition of, Common Stock acquired under
17.1 OTHER PROVISIONS.
any Stock Option, for the acceleration of Vesting of Awards in the event of a change in control of the Company, for the payment of the value of Awards to Participants in the event of a change in control of the Company, or to comply with federal and state securities laws, or understandings or conditions as to the Participant's employment in addition to those specifically provided for under the Plan.
Each Award granted under the Plan to a Participant shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and Stock Options and SARs shall be exercisable, during the Participant's lifetime, only by the Participant. In the event of the death of a Participant, each Stock Option or SAR theretofore granted to him or her shall be exercisable during such period after his or her death as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, set forth in the Award Agreement on the date of grant and then only by the executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased Participant or the person or persons to whom the deceased Participant's rights under the Stock Option or SAR shall pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit the transferability of a Stock Option (other than an ISO) by a Participant solely to members of the Participant's immediate family or trusts or family partnerships or other similar entities for the benefit of such persons, and subject to such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish and include in the Award Agreement.
17.2 TRANSFERABILITY.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, allow a Participant to elect to defer the receipt of any compensation attributable to an Award under guidelines and procedures to be established by the Committee after taking into account the advice of the Company's tax counsel.
17.3 ELECTION TO DEFER COMPENSATION ATTRIBUTABLE TO AWARD.
If at any time the Committee shall determine that the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject to any Award on any securities exchange or under any applicable law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory authority, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of an Award or the issuance of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be exercised, distributed or paid out, as the case may be, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
17.4 LISTING OF SHARES AND RELATED MATTERS.
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
17.5 NO RIGHT, TITLE, OR INTEREST IN COMPANY ASSETS.
The Participant's rights, if any, to continue to serve the Company as a director, officer, employee, independent contractor or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by his or her designation as a Participant under the Plan, and the Company or the applicable Subsidiary reserves the right to terminate the employment of any Employee or the services of any Independent Contractor or director at any time. The adoption of the Plan shall not be deemed to give any Employee, Nonemployee Director, Independent Contractor or any other individual any right to be selected as a Participant or to be granted an Award.
17.6 NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE OR TO GRANTS.
The Committee may grant Awards to individual Participants who are subject to the tax laws of nations other than the United States, and such Awards may have terms and conditions as determined by the Committee as necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws. The Committee may take any action which it deems advisable to obtain approval of such Awards by the appropriate foreign governmental entity; provided, however, that no such Awards may be granted pursuant to this Section 16.6 and no action may be taken which would result in a violation of the Exchange Act or any other applicable law.
17.7 AWARDS SUBJECT TO FOREIGN LAWS.
The Plan, all Awards granted hereunder, and all actions taken in connection herewith shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws, except as superseded by applicable federal law.
17.8 GOVERNING LAW.
No Award granted under the Plan shall be considered compensation for purposes of computing benefits under any retirement plan of the Company or any Subsidiary nor affect any benefits or compensation under any other benefit or compensation plan of the Company or any Subsidiary now or subsequently in effect.
17.9 OTHER BENEFITS.
No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Common Stock, Stock Options, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
17.10 NO FRACTIONAL SHARES.
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may not, without the consent of the Company's stockholders, reprice any outstanding Award; provided, however, that stock splits, stock dividends and similar events as set forth in Section 5.2 herein shall not be deemed to be a repricing hereunder.
17.11 PROHIBITION ON REPRICING OF OPTIONS.
Except as set forth in Section 14 herein and notwithstanding any other provision set forth in the Plan to the contrary, (a) any Award (other than a Stock Option or SAR) that is not subject to performance criteria shall Vest over a service period of at least three years, with such vesting to occur in equal installments over such three year period, and (b) any Award (other than a Stock Option or SAR) that is subject to performance criteria shall Vest over a performance period of at least 12 months in one or more installments over that period.
17.12 MINIMUM VESTING PERIODS.


