FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20080215171025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
At a meeting on February 14, 2008, the Board of Directors approved the recommendations of the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Company") and took the following actions with regard to the compensation of the individuals who serve as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, Chief Financial and Operating Officer, President and Managing Director, Global Delivery, and Chief Operating Officer, Global Client Services (the "Named Executive Officers").
. The Compensation Committee considered the base salaries of the Named Executive Officers and determined, effective January 1, 2008, to increase the base salaries for Francisco D'Souza, Gordon Coburn, Ramakrishnan Chandrasekaran and Rajeev Mehta and lower the base salary for Lakshmi Narayanan. The Compensation Committee also determined the 2007 annual cash incentive bonuses to be awarded to each of the Named Executive Officers in accordance with the Company's previously disclosed non-equity incentive bonus program. The table below sets forth the previous annual base salary levels, the new annual base salary levels and the 2007 annual bonus awards for the Company's Named Executive Officers.
Base Salaries and 2007 Bonus Awards
 
. In addition, on February 14, 2008, the Compensation Committee addressed the applicable target percentages for the 2008 annual cash incentive bonuses for each of the Named Executive Officers. Each of the target percentages for the Named Executive Officers remained the same. The annual incentive target levels for the Named Executive
Bonus Targets
 
Officers are based on a percentage of their salary. The Compensation Committee determines actual cash incentive bonuses after the end of the fiscal year based upon the Company's performance. The table below sets forth the applicable percentages for the Company's Named Executive Officers for 2008.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 15, 2008


