FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20080905160602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 4, 2008, the Compensation Committee ("Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), after thorough evaluation, granted the following awards of restricted stock units ("Stock Units") to certain named executive officers of the Company set forth below.
 
The Stock Units vest in three annual installments, with 33.33% of the Stock Units vesting on the one year anniversary of the date of grant, September 4, 2008 (the "First Vesting Date"), 33.33% on the two year anniversary of the date of grant (the "Second Vesting Date") and 33.34% of the Stock Units vesting on the three year anniversary of the date of the grant (the "Third Vesting Date," and each of the First Vesting Date, the Second Vesting Date and the Third Vesting Date, a "Vesting Date"), so that the Stock Units will be fully vested on the Third Vesting Date. If applicable, the number of Stock Units that will vest on the First Vesting Date and the Second Vesting will be rounded down to the preceding whole number, and the number of Stock Units that will vest on the Third Vesting Date will equal the number of Stock Units granted as indicated above minus the whole number of Stock Units that have vested on the First Vesting Date and Second Vesting Date.
The Compensation Committee approved the grant and issuance of the Stock Units pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company's Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan and the related Stock Unit Award Agreements. A form of the Stock Unit Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and the description of this agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of this agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 5, 2008

Exhibit 10.1
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), grants this Award of Stock Units to the Participant named below, pursuant to the Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and this Stock Unit Award Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein will each have the meaning assigned to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
restrictions and forfeiture provisions that apply to the underlying Stock Units, (ii) such dividends shall be paid in cash, in shares of Common Stock, in the form of Stock Units, or a combination of any or all of the foregoing, and (iii) such dividends shall be paid at the same time as the underlying Stock Units are delivered pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
from time to time by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, provisions pertaining to (i) rights and obligations with respect to withholding taxes, (ii) the registration, qualification or listing of the Common Stock, (iii) changes in capitalization of the Company and (iv) other requirements of applicable law. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and construe the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and its decisions shall be conclusive as to any questions arising hereunder. The Committee shall administer the plan and its decisions shall be final, conclusive, and binding on the Company and the Participant.
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Plan, and other materials required to be delivered or made available to the Participant, will be delivered or made available electronically, provided that upon request of the Participant, the Company will deliver to the Participant paper copies of such materials. By accepting the grant of the Stock Units under this Agreement, the Participant hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement. The payment of any award, shares of Common Stock, benefits, or dividend equivalents hereunder is expressly conditioned upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan and your compliance with such terms and conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officers to execute and attest this Agreement, effective as of the Date of Grant.
COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
 


