FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20090213071349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 13, 2009, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 13, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
Teaneck, NJ  February 13, 2009  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services, today announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.
Highlights  Fourth Quarter 2008
 
 
 
 
Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2008 rose to $753.0 million, up 2.5% from $734.7 million in the third quarter of 2008, and up 26% from $600.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. GAAP net income was $112.3 million or $0.38 per diluted share compared to $96.3 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2007. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were $0.41. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.9%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $10.9 million and stock-based Indian fringe benefit taxes of $0.7 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.5%, above the Company's targeted 19-20% range. Earnings for the quarter include $11.4 million, or $0.03 per share, of non-operating foreign currency exchange losses primarily resulting from the weakness in the British Pound during the period. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year 2008 financial performance. We exceeded our most recent revenue guidance and continued to generate industry-leading growth," said Francisco D'Souza, President and CEO of Cognizant. "The Cognizant value proposition stems from our deep understanding of the industry-specific and cyclical issues our clients confront. Our 2008 results demonstrate that even in the face of significant economic headwinds, clients turn to Cognizant as a trusted advisor to help them improve business performance and tap into new growth opportunities in an evolving economy."
Mr. D'Souza continued: "As we look forward to 2009, we will continue to reinvest in our business in order to capitalize on opportunities for continued growth and increased market share. We are committed to maintaining our culture of openness and transparency and our tradition of the highest standards of ethics and corporate governance in our dealings with customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders."
Highlights  Full Year 2008
 
 
 
Revenue for 2008 increased to $2.816 billion, up 32% from $2.136 billion for 2007. GAAP net income was $430.8 million, or $1.44 per diluted share, compared to $350.1 million, or $1.15 per diluted share, for 2007. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were $1.59. GAAP operating margin was 18.3%. Excluding stock-based compensation expense of $43.9 million and stock-based Indian fringe benefit taxes of $8.1 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.2%. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included in the table at the end of this release.
2009 Outlook  First Quarter & Full Year
Based on current global economic weakness and recent customer feedback, the Company is now providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
"During 2008 we managed prudently, expanded selectively, and reinvested succinctly to maintain our industry-leading growth and distinct competitive differentiation," concluded Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial and Operating Officer. "In addition, we finished the year with the strongest balance sheet in
our history, including over $924 million in cash and short-term/long-term investments. We believe that Cognizant is well-positioned to face the global economic challenges of the coming year and to continue to deliver value to our customers and, thereby, our shareholders."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call February 13, at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly and year-end results. To listen to the call, please dial (800) 374-0467 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally and provide the conference ID number: 82223433. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at Cognizant's web site, www.cognizant.com. Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at www.cognizant.com or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering "82223433" from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on February 20, 2009.
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Cognizant's single-minded passion is to dedicate our global technology and innovation know-how, our industry expertise and worldwide resources to working together with clients to make their businesses stronger. With more than 40 global delivery centers and approximately 61,700 employees as of December 31, 2008, we combine a unique onsite/offshore delivery model infused by a distinct culture of customer satisfaction. A member of the NASDAQ-100 Index and S&P 500 Index, Cognizant is a Forbes Global 2000 company and a member of the Fortune 1000 and is ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth and Top 50 Performers listings. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
We seek to manage the company to targeted operating margin, excluding stock-based compensation costs and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense, of 19% to 20% of revenues. Accordingly, we
believe that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding stock-based compensation costs and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense, are meaningful measures for investors to evaluate our financial performance. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of our operating results to that of our competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies and the variety of award types that companies can use under FAS 123R, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make additional comparisons between our operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude costs, namely, stock-based compensation and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense, that are recurring. Stock-based compensation and the related stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 


