FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20090804071343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 4, 2009, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 4, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Teaneck, NJ  August 4, 2009  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services, today announced its second quarter 2009 financial results.
Highlights  Second Quarter 2009
 
 
 
 
Revenue for the second quarter of 2009 rose to $776.6 million, up 13% from $685.4 million in the second quarter of 2008. GAAP net income was $141.3 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared to $103.9 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.50. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 19.5%. Excluding stock based compensation expense of $8.4 million and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense of $1.3 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.8%, above the Company's targeted 19-20% range. Earnings for the quarter included $14.1 million of pre-tax non-operating foreign currency exchange gains (net of hedge losses), or $0.04 per share, primarily resulting from favorable fluctuations in the European currencies and Indian Rupee during the period. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"Despite a fluid economic environment, we posted industry-leading revenue growth this quarter, which demonstrates the resilience of our business model and our ability to adapt to evolving client needs," said Francisco D'Souza, President and CEO of Cognizant. "Large corporations are seeking us out to streamline global delivery, rationalize costs and create new business capabilities that significantly advance their business objectives over the short-, medium- and long-term. I am pleased that during the quarter we further solidified our leadership position in multiple industries, expanded our range of services, specifically in engineering services and industrial automation, and deepened our presence in emerging geographies such as Asia Pacific and the Middle East."
Mr. D'Souza continued: "Based on the strength of our second quarter results, we're increasing our 2009 revenue growth guidance from at least 10% to at least 11.5%. We are convinced that technology will play an integral role in the global economic recovery, and Cognizant is well positioned to capitalize on the unfolding cyclical and secular opportunities."
2009 Outlook  Third Quarter & Full Year
The Company is providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We had an excellent second quarter during which we saw healthy demand and increased revenue, while maintaining our discipline of operational excellence and reinvesting in our business to enhance our competitiveness longer-term," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial and Operating Officer. "The resilience of our business model, backed by our strategic decision of reinvestment, helps us provide increasing value to our customers while nurturing those trusted relationships. In addition, we strengthened our balance sheet significantly with our cash, and short- and long-term investments increasing by approximately $175 million during the quarter to a total of $1.14 billion."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call August 4, at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the Company's quarterly results. To listen to the call, please dial (800) 374-0467 domestically or (706) 679-3288 internationally and provide the conference ID number: 20632230. The call will also be broadcast live via the Internet at
Cognizant's web site, www.cognizant.com. Please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will be made available on the web site at or by calling (800) 642-1687 for domestic callers and (706) 645-9291 for international callers and entering 20632230 from two hours after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on Wednesday, August 12, 2009. The replay will also be available at Cognizant's web site for thirty days following the call.
"
"
About Cognizant Technology Solutions
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Cognizant's single-minded passion is to dedicate our global technology and innovation know-how, our industry expertise and worldwide resources to working together with clients to make their businesses stronger. With over 50 global delivery centers and 64,000 employees as of June 30, 2009, we combine a unique onsite/offshore delivery model infused by a distinct culture of customer satisfaction. A member of the NASDAQ-100 Index and S&P 500 Index, Cognizant is a Forbes Global 2000 company and a member of the Fortune 1000 and is ranked among the top information technology companies in BusinessWeek's Hot Growth and Top 50 Performers listings. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
We seek to manage the company to a targeted operating margin, excluding stock-based compensation costs and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense, of 19% to 20% of revenues. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding stock-based compensation costs and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense, are meaningful measures for investors to evaluate our financial performance. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense for financial and operational decision making, to
evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies and the variety of award types that companies can use under FAS 123R, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make additional comparisons between our operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude costs, namely, stock-based compensation expense that is recurring, and stock-based Indian fringe benefit tax expense which is expected to be abolished during the third quarter of 2009. Stock-based compensation will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 


