FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20110526090951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 26, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved the extension of, and increase to, its stock repurchase program. The Board of Directors approved the extension of the stock repurchase program, which was currently set to expire on December 1, 2011, to June 30, 2012, and increased the amount of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per shares ("Common Stock") that the Company may repurchase from an aggregate of $150,000,000 of Common Stock to an aggregate of $300,000,000 of Common Stock. Consistent with the current stock repurchase program, repurchases under the program may be made through open market purchases or private transactions, in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18. The timing of any repurchases and the exact number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased will be determined by the Company's management, in its discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The Company anticipates that the program will be funded using its cash on hand and cash generated from operations.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 26, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TEANECK, N.J., May 26, 2011  Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the expansion of its existing share repurchase program by $150 million, bringing the total authorization under the current repurchase program to $300 million. In addition, Cognizant's Board has extended the expiration date for the repurchase program to June 30, 2012.
"The Board's decision to expand our share repurchase program reflects confidence in our growth strategy and in our ability to generate strong cash flows," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial and Operating Officer of Cognizant.
Repurchases under the program may be made through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18. The timing of repurchases and the exact number of shares of common stock to be purchased will be determined by the Company's management, in its discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The program will be funded using the Company's cash on hand and cash generated from operations. The program may be extended, suspended or discontinued at any time.
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, dedicated to helping the world's leading companies build stronger businesses. Headquartered in Teaneck, New Jersey (U.S.), Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry and business process expertise, and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 delivery centers worldwide and approximately 111,000 employees as of March 31, 2011, Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100, the S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 500 and is ranked among the top performing and fastest growing companies in the world. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com or follow us on Twitter: Cognizant.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to
future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Investor Contact:
David Nelson, VP, Investor Relations & Treasury, (201) 498-8840,
david.nelson@cognizant.com


