FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20110602161746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation's (the "Company") Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") was held at the Company's headquarters, Glenpointe Centre West, 500 Frank W. Burr Blvd., Teaneck, New Jersey, on Thursday, June 2, 2011. At the Annual Meeting, the following matters were submitted to a vote of stockholders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the close of business on April 8, 2011, the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, there were 304,216,231 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. The holders of 267,935,712 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock were represented in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting, constituting a quorum.
At the Annual Meeting, all of the Class II directors were reelected and all other proposals submitted to stockholders were approved. With respect to the advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, the Company's stockholders selected every year as the frequency.
Proposal 1. Election of Directors
The vote with respect to the election of the Class II directors was as follows:
 
Proposal 2. Advisory Vote on the Compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers
The vote with respect to the advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was as follows:
 
Proposal 3. Advisory Vote on the Frequency of the Advisory Vote on the Compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers
The Company's stockholders recommended, on an advisory basis, that the frequency of the stockholder vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as required by Section 14A(a)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, occur every year, and the votes for each option are set forth in the table below:
 
In accordance with the results of the advisory vote, the Company intends to hold an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year.
Proposal 4. Amendment to Company's Restated Certificate, as amended, to increase the maximum number of authorized shares of the Company's capital stock
The vote with respect to the amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate, as amended, to increase the maximum number of authorized shares of the Company's capital stock, all classes, from 515,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 500,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock") and (ii) 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share ("Preferred Stock"), to 1,015,000,000 shares, consisting of (x) 1,000,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, and (y) 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, was as follows:
 
Proposal 5. Amendment to Company's Restated Certificate, as amended, to reduce certain supermajority voting thresholds
The vote with respect to the amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate, as amended, to reduce certain supermajority voting thresholds was as follows:
 
Proposal 6. Amendment to Company's Amended and Restated By-laws, as amended, to reduce certain supermajority voting thresholds
The vote with respect to the amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated By-laws, as amended, to reduce certain supermajority voting thresholds was as follows:
 
Proposal 7. Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The vote with respect to the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2011 was as follows:
 
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 2, 2011

Exhibit 3.1
The undersigned, for purposes of amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate") of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify as follows:
: The name of the Corporation is Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Corporation").
FIRST
: The Certificate was filed with the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 7, 2003 and was amended on May 26, 2004 and on June 13, 2006.
SECOND
That Article IV, Section A of the Certificate is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
THIRD:
"The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is 1,015,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 1,000,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock") and (ii) 15,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $0.10 par value per share ("Preferred Stock")."
: That Article VII of the Certificate is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
FOURTH
"The Board of Directors shall be authorized to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the By-Laws of the corporation in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
percent in voting power of all outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal any provision of the By-Laws of the corporation."
: That the last sentence of Article VIII, Section (1) of the Certificate is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
FIFTH
"Directors may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least 66
 2
/
3
percent in voting power of all outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class."
: That Article XI, Section (2) of the Certificate is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
SIXTH
"Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-laws of the corporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
percent in voting power of all the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal any provision of Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX or this Article XI or to adopt any provision inconsistent herewith."
: Except as expressly amended herein, all other provisions of the Certificate shall remain in full force and effect.
SEVENTH
: That the foregoing amendments were duly adopted by the Board of Directors and by the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
EIGHTH
 
, the undersigned, being a duly authorized officer of the Corporation, does hereby execute this Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation this 2nd day of June, 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
This Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Amended and Restated By-Laws, as amended on April 18, 2008 (the "Amended and Restated By-Laws"), of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (the "Corporation") shall be effective as of June 2, 2011.
1. Article X of the Amended and Restated By-Laws, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
The Board of Directors shall be authorized to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the By-laws of the corporation in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
percent in voting power of all the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal any provision of the By-laws of the corporation.
2. Except as amended herein, the Amended and Restated By-Laws remain in full force and effect.
The foregoing has been duly adopted by the Corporation's Board of Directors and stockholders pursuant to Article X of the Amended and Restated By-Laws and the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.
 


