FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20111102061638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 2, 2011, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Glenpointe Centre West
500 Frank W. Burr Blvd.
Teaneck, NJ 07666
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TEANECK, N.J., November 2, 2011  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, today announced its third quarter 2011 financial results.
Highlights  Third Quarter 2011
 
Revenue for the third quarter of 2011 rose to $1.601 billion, up 31.6% from $1.217 billion in the third quarter of 2010. GAAP net income was $227.1 million, or $0.73 per diluted share, compared to $203.7 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2010. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.80. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.3%. Excluding stock-based compensation expense of $24.5 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 19.8%, within the Company's targeted 19-20% range. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"Cognizant has delivered another strong quarter of industry leading revenue growth with non-GAAP operating margins within our target range. Growth during the quarter was again broad-based across our portfolio of industries, services and geographies," said Francisco D'Souza, President and CEO. "In spite of persistent macro-economic uncertainties, clients throughout the world continue to invest thoughtfully and strategically in their businesses and are directing investments toward building agility to drive the dual mandates of operational efficiency and business transformation. Cognizant's continued investments across multiple service horizons help address these dual mandates and drive superior business value regardless of the economic environment."
2011 Outlook  Fourth Quarter and Full Year
The Company is providing the following guidance:
 
"We are delighted with the on-going success of our recruitment and retention practices as we strive to remain an employer of choice in our industry. This is reflected in our continued success in attracting the best talent globally, while maintaining some of the lowest attrition numbers in the industry," said Gordon Coburn, Chief Financial and Operating Officer. "In addition, we stepped up our share repurchase program by spending over $163 million to repurchase shares during the quarter, reflecting confidence in our ability to generate strong cash flows."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call November 2, 2011 at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern) to discuss the Company's third quarter 2011 results. To listen to the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0467 (domestic) and (706) 679-3288 (international) and provide the following conference ID number: 14714509.
The conference call will also be available live via the Internet by accessing the Cognizant website at . Please go to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software.
www.cognizant.com
For those who cannot access the live broadcast, a replay will be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 for domestic callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers and entering 14714509 from a half hour after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (Eastern) on Wednesday, November 9, 2011. The replay will also be available at Cognizant's website for 60 days following the call.
www.cognizant.com
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, dedicated to helping the world's leading companies build stronger businesses. Headquartered in Teaneck, New Jersey (U.S.), Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry and business process expertise, and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 delivery centers worldwide and 130,000 employees as of September 30, 2011, Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100, the S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 500 and is ranked among the top performing and fastest growing companies in the world. Visit us online at or follow us on Twitter: Cognizant.
www.cognizant.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not
prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
We seek to manage the company to a targeted operating margin, excluding stock-based compensation costs, of 19% to 20% of revenues. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are meaningful measures for investors to evaluate our financial performance. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies permitted under U.S. GAAP and the variety of award types that companies can use, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation expense allows investors to make additional comparisons between our operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude costs, namely stock-based compensation, that are recurring. Stock-based compensation will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
(a) Adjustment to exclude stock-based compensation of $24,500 from income from operations of which $3,990 was reported in cost of revenues and $20,510 was reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(b) Adjustment to exclude stock-based compensation of $64,244 from income from operations of which $11,139 was reported in cost of revenues and $53,105 was reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(c) Adjustment to exclude stock-based compensation of $14,109 from income from operations of which $2,850 was reported in cost of revenues and $11,259 was reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(d) Adjustment to exclude stock-based compensation of $42,044 from income from operations of which $9,889 was reported in cost of revenues and $32,155 was reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(e) Adjustment to exclude the per share effect of stock-based compensation expense net of the related tax benefit.


