FILE:CTSH/CTSH-8K-20120806061606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2012, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release to report the Company's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The full text of the press release is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.*
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 6, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
TEANECK, N.J., August 6, 2012  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ: CTSH), a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, today announced its second quarter 2012 financial results.
Highlights  Second Quarter 2012
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue for the second quarter of 2012 rose to $1.795 billion, up 20.9% from $1.485 billion in the second quarter of 2011. GAAP net income was $251.9 million, or $0.82 per diluted share, compared to $208.0 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2011. Diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis was $0.88. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.5%. Excluding stock-based compensation expense of $26.3 million, non-GAAP operating margin was 20.0%, in line with the Company's targeted 19-20% range. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP operating results and diluted EPS are included at the end of this release.
"Clients continue to turn to Cognizant to help reinvent their business models in the face of secular industry changes, evolving demographics, and a new stack of social, mobile, analytics, and cloud technologies," said Francisco D'Souza, Chief Executive Officer. "We are well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities due to our unique combination of management consulting and operational capabilities in areas such as large scale program management and change management. With our robust global delivery model, we make the complexities of managing large scale transformation programs seamless and transparent to our clients."
"Cognizant once again delivered industry leading growth despite a challenging macro-economic environment," said Gordon Coburn, President. "This market downturn, as with those before, is serving as a catalyst for clients to embrace a broader range of our services. Clients view us as a strong partner to achieve operational improvements in efficiency and effectiveness while simultaneously innovating for the future."
2012 Outlook  Third Quarter and Full Year
The Company is providing the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
"We are pleased to maintain our full-year revenue guidance as we continue to execute as we expected," said Karen McLoughlin, Chief Financial Officer. "Our reaffirmed full-year revenue guidance includes absorbing more than $20 million of negative currency impacts during quarters two through four as a result of currency movements since we last provided guidance in early May. In addition, we repurchased over $358 million of shares during the second quarter, reflecting our strong cash flow and confidence in the strength of our business."
Conference Call
Cognizant will host a conference call August 6, 2012 at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern) to discuss the Company's second quarter 2012 results. To listen to the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0467 (domestic) and (706) 679-3288 (international) and provide the following conference ID number: 93821979.
The conference call will also be available live via the Internet by accessing the Cognizant website at . Please go to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software.
www.cognizant.com
For those who cannot access the live broadcast, a replay will be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 for domestic callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers and entering 93821979 from a half hour after the end of the call until 11:59 p.m. (Eastern) on Monday, August 20, 2012. The replay will also be available at Cognizant's website for 60 days following the call.
www.cognizant.com
About Cognizant
Cognizant (NASDAQ: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services, dedicated to helping the world's leading companies build stronger businesses. Headquartered in Teaneck, New Jersey (U.S.), Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry and business process expertise, and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 delivery centers worldwide and approximately 145,200 employees as of June 30, 2012, Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100, the S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 500 and is ranked among the top performing and fastest growing companies in the world. Visit us online at or follow us on Twitter: Cognizant.
www.cognizant.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements which may constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include general economic conditions and the factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, this press release includes the following measures defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures: non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations of Cognizant's GAAP financial statements to such non-GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.
We seek to manage the company to a targeted operating margin, excluding stock-based compensation costs, of 19% to 20% of revenues. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are meaningful measures for investors to evaluate our financial performance. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies permitted under U.S. GAAP and the variety of award types that companies can use, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation expense allows investors to make additional comparisons between our operating results to those of other companies. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.
A limitation of using non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share versus operating margin and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude costs, namely stock-based compensation, that are recurring. Stock-based compensation will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for this limitation by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and evaluating such non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Contact: David Nelson
VP, Investor Relations & Treasurer
201-498-8840
david.nelson@cognizant.com
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 


