FILE:MET/MET-8K-20050622173101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): JUNE 21, 2005 METLIFE, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) DELAWARE 1-15787 13-4075851 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission file number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) --------------------- 200 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10166-0188 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 578-2211 REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT. On June 15, 2005, MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("MetLife"), entered into an underwriting agreement (attached as Exhibit 1.1 to MetLife's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 21, 2005 (the "June 21 Form 8-K")) and a pricing agreement (attached as Exhibit 1.2 to the June 21 Form 8-K) in connection with the offering of its 6.375% Common Equity Units (the "Common Equity Units"). On June 21, 2005, MetLife entered into a Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference) with J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, in connection with the offering of the Common Equity Units. For additional information concerning the offering of the Common Equity Units, see the June 21 Form 8-K. Item 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT. The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS. The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference. On June 21, 2005, LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, LLP, attorneys for MetLife, issued an opinion and consent (attached hereto as Exhibits 5.1 and 23.1, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference) as to the validity of the Common Equity Units. Also on June 21, 2005, Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. issued two separate opinions and consents (attached hereto as Exhibits 5.2, 5.3, 23.2 and 23.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference) related to the validity of trust preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III, respectively. In connection with the offering of the Common Equity Units, MetLife, MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III entered into various agreements, which are attached hereto as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits 4.1 Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. 4.2 Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1). 4.3 Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1). 4.4 Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005, among MetLife, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. 4.5 Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association relating to Subordinated Debt Securities (the "Subordinated Indenture"). 4.6 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 to the Subordinated Indenture, between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. 4.7 Form of Series A Debenture (included in Exhibit 4.6). 4.8 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. 4.9 Form of Series B Debenture (included in Exhibit 4.8). 4.10 Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-61282, 333-61282-01 and 333-61282-02) (the "2001 S-3 Registration Statement"). 4.11 Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration Nos. 333-112073, 333-112073-02 and 333-112073-01 (the "2004 S-3 Registration Statement"). 4.12 Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.13 Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.14 Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.15 Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.16 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II dated as of June 21, 2005, among the MetLife, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, and Anthony J. Williamson, Philip Salmon and Thomas Curran, individuals, as Administrative Trustees. 4.17 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III dated as of June 21, 2005, among the MetLife, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, and Anthony J. Williamson, Philip Salmon and Thomas Curran, individuals, as Administrative Trustees. 4.18 Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust II. 4.19 Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust III. 5.1 Opinion of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP. 5.2 Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association. 5.3 Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association. 23.1 Consent of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP (included in Exhibit 5.1 above). 23.2 Consent of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association (included in Exhibit 5.2 above). 23.3 Consent of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association (included in Exhibit 5.3 above).
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MetLife, Inc. By: /s/ Gwenn L. Carr ------------------------------------ Name: Gwenn L. Carr Title: Senior Vice-President and Secretary Date: June 22, 2005
EXHIBIT INDEX 4.1 Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. 4.2 Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1). 4.3 Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1). 4.4 Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005, among MetLife, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. 4.5 Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association relating to Subordinated Debt Securities (the "Subordinated Indenture"). 4.6 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 to the Subordinated Indenture, between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. 4.7 Form of Series A Debenture (included in Exhibit 4.6). 4.8 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. 4.9 Form of Series B Debenture (included in Exhibit 4.8). 4.10 Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-61282, 333-61282-01 and 333-61282-02) (the "2001 S-3 Registration Statement"). 4.11 Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration Nos. 333-112073, 333-112073-02 and 333-112073-01 (the "2004 S-3 Registration Statement"). 4.12 Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.13 Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement. 4.14 Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2001 S-8 Registration Statement. 4.15 Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2001 S-9 Registration Statement. 4.16 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II dated as of June 21, 2005, among the MetLife, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, and Anthony J. Williamson, Philip Salmon and Thomas Curran, individuals, as Administrative Trustees. 4.17 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III dated as of June 21, 2005, among the MetLife, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, and Anthony J. Williamson, Philip Salmon and Thomas Curran, individuals, as Administrative Trustees. 4.18 Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust II. 4.19 Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust III. 5.1 Opinion of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP. 5.2 Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association. 5.3 Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association. 23.1 Consent of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP, (included in Exhibit 5.1 above). 23.2 Consent of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association (included in Exhibit 5.2 above). 23.3 Consent of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., a professional association (included in Exhibit 5.3 above).

EXHIBIT 4.1 ================================================================================ STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT between METLIFE, INC. and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent Dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate Exhibit B - Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate Exhibit C - Instruction to Stock Purchase Contract Agent Exhibit D - Notice from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Holders Exhibit E - Notice to Settle by Cash Exhibit F - Notice From Stock Purchase Contract Agent To Collateral Agent (Settlement of Purchase Contract through Remarketing) iv
STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, acting as stock purchase contract agent for the Holders of Common Equity Units (as defined herein) from time to time (the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent"). RECITALS The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Certificates (as defined herein) evidencing the Common Equity Units. All things necessary to make the Stock Purchase Contracts (as defined herein), when the Certificates are executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as provided in this Agreement, the valid obligations of the Company, and to constitute these presents a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done. For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Common Equity Units by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION Section 1.01 Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) the terms defined in this Article I have the meanings assigned to them in this Article I and include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders; (b) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States; (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision; and the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(c): "Act" has the meaning, with respect to any Holder, set forth in Section 1.04(a). "Adjustment Factor" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by
contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more agreements supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof. "Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means with respect to each series of Trust Preferred Securities, as of any Determination Date, the next potential Remarketing Settlement Date following such Determination Date for such series, unless there has previously been a Successful Remarketing of such series, in which case the term means, with respect to such series, the Remarketing Date. "Applicants" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12(b). "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States Code, or any other law of the United States that from time to time provides a uniform system of bankruptcy laws. "Base Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the Debenture Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to time. "Beneficial Owner" means, with respect to a Book-Entry Interest, a Person who is the beneficial owner of such Book-Entry Interest as reflected on the books of the Depositary or on the books of a Person maintaining an account with such Depositary (directly as a Depositary Participant or as an indirect participant, in each case in accordance with the rules of such Depositary). "Board Of Directors" means the board of directors of the Company or a duly authorized committee of that board. "Board Resolution" means one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors, a copy of which has been certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Book-Entry Interest" means a beneficial interest in a Global Certificate, registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof, ownership and transfers of which shall be maintained and made through book entries by such Depositary as described in Section 3.06. "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York City are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. "Capital Stock" means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participation or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated, whether 2
voting or non-voting) corporate stock or similar equity or membership interests in other types of entities. "Cash Merger" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii). "Cash Merger Early Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii). "Cash Merger Early Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii). "Cash Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i). "Certificate" means a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or a Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate. "Closing Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement. "Collateral Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement. "Collateral Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent shall have become appointed as such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Collateral Agent thereunder. "Collateral Substitution" means (i) with respect to a Normal Common Equity Unit, the substitution for the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities included in such Normal Common Equity Unit by Treasury Securities or portions thereof in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, or (ii) with respect to a Stripped Common Equity Unit, the substitution for the Pledged Treasury Securities included in such Stripped Common Equity Unit by Trust Preferred Securities in an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities. "Common Equity Unit" means a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity Unit, as the case may be. "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company. 3
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Agreement, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor. "Constituent Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(i). "Contract Payments" means the payments payable by the Company on the Payment Dates in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract, at a rate per year of 1.510% on the Stated Amount of $25.00 per Stock Purchase Contract from and including the issue date of Common Equity Units to but excluding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and at a rate per year of 1.465% on the remaining Stated Amount of $12.50 per Stock Purchase Contract from and including the Initial Stock Purchase Date to but excluding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10004. "Current Market Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(viii). "Custodial Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Custodial Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Custodial Agent thereunder. "Daily Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Debentures", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreements. "Debenture Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee pursuant to the Indenture, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as provided in the Indenture. "Deferred Contract Payments" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.12(a). "Depositary" means a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for the Common Equity Units as contemplated by Sections 3.06 and 3.08. "Depositary Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time the Depositary effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Depositary. "Determination Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). 4
"Distribution Rate, in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities," has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Dividend Threshold Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(iv). "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Early Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a). "Early Settlement Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(b). "Early Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(b). "Early Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(c). "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. "Expiration Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.04(e). "Expiration Time" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(v). "Failed Remarketing", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreements. "First Supplemental Indenture" means the First Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and the Debenture Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to time. "First Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, August 15, 2008; with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, six months after the earlier of (i) the Remarketing Settlement Date of a Successful Remarketing of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or (ii) February 15, 2009. "Fixed Daily Settlement Rates" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Global Certificate" means a Certificate that evidences all or part of the Common Equity Units and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof. "Holder" means, with respect to a Common Equity Unit, the Person in whose name the Common Equity Units evidenced by a Certificate is registered in the Security Register; provided, however, that solely for the purpose of determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of Common Equity Units have voted on any matter (and not for any other purpose hereunder), if the Common Equity Units remain in the form of 5
one or more Global Certificates and if the Depositary that is, or the nominee of whom is the registered holder of such Global Certificate has sent an omnibus proxy assigning voting rights to the Depositary Participants to whose accounts the Common Equity Units are credited on the record date, the term "Holder" shall mean such Depositary Participant acting at the direction of the Beneficial Owners. "Indemnitees" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.07(c). "Indenture" means the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture, taken together. "Initial Liquidation Amount", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Initial Stock Purchase Date" means August 15, 2008 provided that the Initial Stock Purchase Date may be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2009 in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(v). "Issuer Order" or "Issuer Request" means a written order or request signed in the name of the Company by (i) either its Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, and (ii) either its Corporate Secretary or one of its Assistant Corporate Secretaries or its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Market Disruption Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Maximum Daily Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Minimum Daily Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Non-Electing Share" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(i). "Normal Common Equity Unit" means the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate in respect of (i) a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series A Trust Security, (ii) a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series B Trust Security, in each case subject to the Pledge thereof, and (iii) the related Stock Purchase Contract. "Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Normal Common Equity Units specified on such certificate. "NYSE" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by (i) either the Company's Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, and (ii) either the Company's Corporate Secretary or one of its Assistant Corporate Secretaries or its 6
Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Opinion Of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel to the Company (and who may be an employee of the Company), and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. An Opinion of Counsel may rely on certificates as to matters of fact. "Outstanding Common Equity Units" means as of the date of determination, all Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates theretofore authenticated, executed and delivered under this Agreement, except: (i) if a Termination Event has occurred, (x) Normal Common Equity Units for which the underlying Trust Preferred Securities have been theretofore deposited with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in trust for the Holders of such Normal Common Equity Units and (y) Stripped Common Equity Units; (ii) Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates theretofore cancelled by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation or deemed cancelled pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and (iii) Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates in exchange for or in lieu of which other Certificates have been authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, other than any such Certificate in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent proof satisfactory to it that such Certificate is held by a protected purchaser in whose hands the Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate are valid obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of the Common Equity Units have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Common Equity Units owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding Common Equity Units, except that, in determining whether the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be authorized and protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Common Equity Units that a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Common Equity Units so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding Common Equity Units if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Common Equity Units and that the pledgee is not the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. "Payment Date" means each February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, 7
trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature. "Plan" means an employee benefit plan that is subject to ERISA, a plan or individual retirement account that is subject to Section 4975 of the Code or any entity whose assets are considered assets of any such plan. "Pledge" means the pledge under the Pledge Agreement of the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, in each case constituting a part of the Common Equity Units. "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on its own behalf and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units, as amended from time to time. "Pledged Treasury Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement. "Pledged Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement. "Predecessor Certificate" means a Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or a Predecessor Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate. "Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" of any particular Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate means every previous Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Normal Common Equity Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate. "Predecessor Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate" of any particular Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate means every previous Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate. "Proceeds" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement. 8
"Prospectus" means the prospectus relating to the delivery of shares or any securities in connection with an Early Settlement pursuant to Section 5.07 or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii), in the form in which first filed, or transmitted for filing, with the Securities and Exchange Commission after the effective date of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such Prospectus. "Purchase Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Purchased Shares" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(vi)(A). "Record Date" for any distribution and Contract Payment payable on any Payment Date means, as to any Global Certificate or any other Certificate, the first business day of the calendar month in which the relevant Payment Date falls; provided that the Company may, at its option, upon notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, select any other day as the Record Date for any Payment Date so long as such Record Date selected is more than one Business Day but less than 60 Business Days prior to such Payment Date. "Reference Dealer" means a dealer engaged in trading of convertible securities. "Reference Price" means $43.35. "Registration Statement" means a registration statement under the Securities Act prepared by the Company covering, inter alia, the delivery by the Company of any securities in connection with an Early Settlement on the Early Settlement Date or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts on the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date under Section 5.04(b)(ii), including all exhibits thereto and the documents incorporated by reference in the prospectus contained in such registration statement, and any post-effective amendments thereto. "Relevant Exchange" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Remarketing", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Remarketing Agent", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities," has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Remarketing Agreement", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Remarketing Date", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Remarketing Fee", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. 9
"Remarketing Settlement Date" each "Remarketing Settlement Date" as defined the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and "Remarketing Settlement Date" as defined the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust III. "Reorganization Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b). "Responsible Officer" shall mean, when used with respect to the Stock Purchase Contact Agent, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Agreement. "Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, November 15, 2008, if the Remarketing of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities on the First Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities is a Failed Remarketing; with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, three months after the First Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, if the Remarketing of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities on the First Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities is a Failed Remarketing. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. "Securities Intermediary" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Securities Intermediary under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Securities Intermediary" shall mean such successor or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings set forth in Section 3.05. "Senior Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 of the First Supplemental Indenture. "Separate Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units. "Series A Trust Preferred Security" means a "Trust Preferred Security" as defined in the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust II. "Series B Trust Preferred Security" means a "Trust Preferred Security" as defined the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust III. 10
"Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Stated Amount" means, with respect to any one Normal Common Equity Unit or Stripped Common Equity Unit, $25.00 prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date and $12.50 thereafter after the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date $12.50, and, with respect to any one Trust Preferred Security, $1,000. "Stock Purchase Contract" means, with respect to any Common Equity Units, the contract forming a part of such Common Equity Units and obligating (i) the Company to sell, and the Holder of such Common Equity Units to purchase, shares of Common Stock and (ii) the Company to pay the Holder thereof Contract Payments, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article V hereof. "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means the Person named as the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.03. "Stock Purchase Date" means each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. "Stripped Common Equity Units" means, following the substitution of Treasury Securities for Pledged Trust Preferred Securities as collateral to secure a Holder's obligations under the applicable Stock Purchase Contract, the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate in respect of such Treasury Securities, subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Stock Purchase Contract. "Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Stripped Common Equity Units specified on such certificate. "Subsequent Stock Purchase Date" means February 15, 2009, provided that the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date may be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2010 in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(v). "Successful", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement. "Termination Date" means the date, if any, on which a Termination Event occurs. "Termination Event" means the occurrence of any of the following events: 11
(i) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, a judgment, decree or court order shall have been entered granting relief under the Bankruptcy Code, adjudicating the Company to be insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization or liquidation of the Company or any other similar applicable federal or state law and if such judgment, decree or order shall have been entered more than 60 days prior to the Stock Purchase Date, such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; (ii) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, a judgment, decree or court order for the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee n bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or of its property, or for the termination or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered and if such judgment, decree or order shall have been entered more than 60 days prior to the Stock Purchase Date, such judgment, decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or (iii) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, the Company shall file a petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code, or shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or liquidation under the Bankruptcy Code or any other similar applicable federal or state law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition, or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of its property, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due. "Third Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, February 15, 2009, if the Remarketing of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities on the Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities is a Failed Remarketing; and, with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the day that is three months after the Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, if the Remarketing of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities on the Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities was a Failed Remarketing. "Threshold Appreciation Price" means $53.10. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation. "Trading Day" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Trading Day Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a). "Treasury Security" means a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Security maturing on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date with a principal amount of $1,000 payable on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date and with the CUSIP numbers as set forth 12
below: "Trust Agreement" means each of the Amended and Restated Declarations of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees (each as named therein) and the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III, respectively. "Trust Preferred Securities" means the Series A Trust Preferred Securities and the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, collectively. "Underwriters" means the underwriters identified in Schedule I to the Underwriting Agreement. "Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated June 15 2005, among the Company, MetLife Capital Trust II, MetLife Capital Trust III, and the Underwriters, relating to the issuance of Normal Common Equity Units by the Company. "Unsecured Notes" means the unsecured junior subordinated notes of the Company that will be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture, in the Company's sole discretion, as provided in Section 5.11(c). "Vice President" means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "Vice President." Section 1.02 Compliance Certificates and Opinions. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, upon any application or request by the Company to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to take any action in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Company shall furnish to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this 13
Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with and, if reasonably requested by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Agreement relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. Notwithstanding any portion of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to furnish the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Opinion of Counsel in connection with the issuance of the Common Equity Units pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement. Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement (other than the Officers' Certificate provided for in Section 10.05) shall include: (i) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (iii) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (iv) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with. Section 1.03 Form of Documents Delivered to Stock Purchase Contract Agent. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which its certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. 14
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Agreement, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument. Section 1.04 Acts of Holders; Record Dates. (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Agreement to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Agreement and (subject to Section 7.01) conclusive in favor of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any manner that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent deems sufficient. (c) The ownership of Common Equity Units shall be proved by the Security Register. (d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Common Equity Units shall bind every future Holder of the same Common Equity Units and the Holder of every Certificate evidencing such Common Equity Units issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Certificate. (e) The Company may set any date as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Common Equity Units entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders of Common Equity Units. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of the Outstanding Normal Common Equity Units and the Outstanding Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action with respect to the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken prior to or on the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Common Equity Units on such record date. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and be of no effect), and nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to 15
render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Common Equity Units on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in writing and to each Holder of Common Equity Units in the manner set forth in Section 1.06. With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section 1.04(e), the Company may designate any date as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in writing, and to each Holder of Common Equity Unit in the manner set forth in Section 1.06, prior to or on the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the Company shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date. Section 1.05 Notices. Any notice or communication is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier (with receipt confirmed) or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address; provided that notice shall be deemed given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent only upon receipt thereof: If to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, NY 10004 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 If to the Company: MetLife, Inc. 27-01 Queens Plaza North Long Island City, NY 11101 Attention: Treasurer Facsimile: 212-578-0266 16
If to the Collateral Agent: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, NY 10004 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 If to the Debenture Trustee: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, NY 10004 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall send to the Debenture Trustee at the telecopier number set forth above a copy of any notices in the form of Exhibits C, D, E or F it sends or receives. Section 1.06 Notice to Holders; Waiver. Where this Agreement provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular Holder, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Agreement provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. 17
Section 1.07 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. Section 1.08 Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this Agreement by the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. Section 1.09 Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Agreement or in the Common Equity Units shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 1.10 Benefits of Agreement. Nothing contained in this Agreement or in the Common Equity Units, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and, to the extent provided hereby, the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement. The Holders from time to time shall be beneficiaries of this Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Common Equity Units evidenced by their Certificates by their acceptance of delivery of such Certificates. Section 1.11 Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT AND THE COMMON EQUITY UNITS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Section 1.12 Legal Holidays. In any case where any Payment Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Common Equity Units), Contract Payments or other distributions shall not be paid on such date, but Contract Payments or such other distributions shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Payment Date, provided that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then payment of the Contract Payments or other distributions will be made on the Business Day immediately preceding such Payment Date. No interest shall accrue or be payable by the Company or to any Holder for the period from and after any such Payment Date. In any case where the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date or any Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Common Equity Units), Stock Purchase Contracts shall not be performed and Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement shall not be effected on such date, but Stock Purchase Contracts shall be performed or Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement shall be effected, as applicable, on the next 18
succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Stock Purchase Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, as applicable. Section 1.13 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts by the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Section 1.14 Inspection of Agreement. A copy of this Agreement shall be available at all reasonable times during normal business hours at the Corporate Trust Office for inspection by any Holder or Beneficial Owner. Section 1.15 Appointment of Financial Institution as Agent for the Company. The Company may appoint a financial institution (which may be the Collateral Agent) to act as its agent in performing its obligations and in accepting and enforcing performance of the obligations of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders, under this Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contracts, by giving notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 1.05 hereof. Any such appointment shall not relieve the Company in any way from its obligations hereunder. Section 1.16 No Waiver. No failure on the part of the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law. ARTICLE II CERTIFICATE FORMS Section 2.01 Forms of Certificates Generally. The Certificates (including the form of Stock Purchase Contract forming part of each Common Equity Units evidenced thereby) shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto (in the case of Certificates evidencing Normal Common Equity Units) or Exhibit B hereto (in the case of Certificates evidencing Stripped Common Equity Units), with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Common Equity Units are listed or any depositary therefor, or as may, 19
consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates. The definitive Certificates shall be produced in any manner as determined by the officers of the Company executing the Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificates, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, as evidenced by their execution thereof. Every Global Certificate authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REQUESTED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. Section 2.02 Form of Stock Purchase Contract Agent's Certificate of Authentication. The form of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's certificate of authentication of the Common Equity Units shall be in substantially the form set forth on the form of the applicable Certificates. 20
ARTICLE III THE COMMON EQUITY UNITS Section 3.01 Amount; Form and Denominations. The aggregate number of Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder is limited to 72,000,000 (or 82,800,000 if the option granted to the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement is exercised in full), except for Certificates authenticated, executed and delivered upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Certificates pursuant to Section 3.04, Section 3.05, Section 3.10, Section 3.13, Section 3.14 or Section 8.05. The Certificates shall be issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Normal Common Equity Unit or Stripped Common Equity Unit and any integral multiple thereof. Section 3.02 Rights and Obligations Evidenced by the Certificates. Each Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall evidence the number of Normal Common Equity Units specified therein, with each such Normal Common Equity Unit representing (1) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series A Trust Preferred Security, subject to the Pledge of such Series A Trust Preferred Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (2) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series B Trust Preferred Security and (3) one Stock Purchase Contract. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for, and on behalf of, the Holder of each Normal Common Equity Unit, to pledge, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Preferred Securities forming a part of such Normal Common Equity Unit, to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, a security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder (i) the Series A Trust Preferred Securities to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (ii) the Series B Trust Preferred Securities to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. Upon the creation of a Stripped Common Equity Unit pursuant to Section 3.13, each Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall evidence the number of Stripped Common Equity Units specified therein, with each such Stripped Common Equity Unit representing (1) if such Stripped Common Equity Unit is created prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Treasury Security that matures as of the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities with a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such interest by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (2) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Treasury Security that matures as of the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities with a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such interest by such 21
Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (3) one Stock Purchase Contract. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for, and on behalf of, the Holder of each Stripped Common Equity Unit, to pledge, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, such Holder's interest in each Treasury Security forming a part of such Stripped Common Equity Unit to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, a security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder (i) the Series A Treasury Security to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (ii) the Series B Treasury Security to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase Shares of Common Stock on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. Such Stock Purchase Contract shall not entitle the Holder of a Common Equity Unit to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock, prior to the purchase of shares of Common Stock under each Stock Purchase Contract, including, without limitation, the right to vote or receive any dividends or other payments or to consent or to receive notice as a stockholder in respect of the meetings of stockholders or for the election of directors of the Company or for any other matter, or any other rights whatsoever as a stockholder of the Company. Section 3.03 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.13 and Section 3.14 hereof, upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and at any time and from time to time thereafter, the Company may deliver Certificates executed by the Company to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for authentication, execution on behalf of the Holders and delivery, together with a written order from the Company for authentication of such Certificates, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with such written order shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver such Certificates. The Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents. The signature of any of these officers on the Certificates may be manual or facsimile. Certificates bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of such Certificates. No Stock Purchase Contract evidenced by a Certificate shall be valid until such Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Holder by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as such Holder's attorney-in-fact. Such signature by an authorized officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be conclusive evidence that the Holder of such Certificate has entered into the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by such Certificate. Each Certificate shall be dated the date of its authentication. 22
No Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by an authorized officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Certificate shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Section 3.04 Temporary Certificates. Pending the preparation of definitive Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders, and deliver, in lieu of such definitive Certificates, temporary Certificates that are in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A or Exhibit B hereto, as the case may be, with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, are listed, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates. If temporary Certificates are issued, the Company will cause definitive Certificates to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Certificates, the temporary Certificates shall be exchangeable for definitive Certificates upon surrender of the temporary Certificates at the Corporate Trust Office, at the expense of the Company and without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, one or more definitive Certificates of like tenor and denominations and evidencing a like number of Common Equity Units as the temporary Certificate or Certificates so surrendered. Until so exchanged, the temporary Certificates shall in all respects evidence the same benefits and the same obligations with respect to the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby as definitive Certificates. Section 3.05 Registration; Registration of Transfer and Exchange. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall keep at the Corporate Trust Office a register (the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall provide for the registration of Certificates and of transfers of Certificates (the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, in such capacity, the "Security Registrar"). The Security Registrar shall record separately the registration and transfer of the Certificates evidencing Normal Common Equity Units and Stripped Common Equity Units. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Certificate at the Corporate Trust Office, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the designated transferee or transferees, and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more 23
new Certificates of any authorized denominations, of like tenor, and evidencing a like number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be. At the option of the Holder, Certificates evidencing Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units may be exchanged for other Certificates, of any authorized denominations and evidencing a like number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, upon surrender of the Certificates to be exchanged at the Corporate Trust Office. Whenever any Certificates are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver the Certificates that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Certificates issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate shall evidence the ownership of the same number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same obligations under this Agreement as the Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, evidenced by the Certificate surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Every Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall (if so required by the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent duly executed, by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate, but the Company and the Security Registrar may require payment from the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Certificates, other than any exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, Section 3.06 and Section 8.05 not involving any transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder and deliver any Certificate in exchange for any other Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest to occur of any Early Settlement Date with respect to the Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate, any Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to the Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall: (i) if the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (including upon any Cash Settlement) or an Early Settlement Date or a Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such other Certificate has occurred, deliver to such Holder the shares of Common Stock issuable in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Common Equity Units evidenced by such other Certificate; 24
(ii) if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities pledged in lieu thereof, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, to such Holder, in each case subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.15 and Article V hereof; or (iii) if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series B Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities pledged in lieu thereof, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, to such Holder, in each case subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.15 and Article V hereof. Section 3.06 Book-Entry Interests. The Certificates, on original issuance, will be issued in the form of one or more fully registered Global Certificates, to be delivered to the Depositary or its custodian by, or on behalf of, the Company. The Company hereby designates DTC as the initial Depositary. Such Global Certificates shall initially be registered on the books of the Security Registrar in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the Depositary, and no Beneficial Owner will receive a definitive Certificate representing such Beneficial Owner's interest in such Global Certificate, except as provided in Section 3.09. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall enter into an agreement with the Depositary if so requested by the Company. Unless and until definitive, fully registered Certificates have been issued to Beneficial Owners pursuant to Section 3.09: (i) the provisions of this Section 3.06 shall be in full force and effect; (ii) the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Security Registrar shall be entitled to deal with the Depositary for all purposes of this Agreement (including, without limitation, making Contract Payments and receiving approvals, votes or consents hereunder) as the Holder of the Common Equity Units and the sole holder of the Global Certificates and shall have no obligation to the Beneficial Owners; provided that any Beneficial Owner may directly enforce against the Company, without the involvement of the Depositary or any other Person, its right to receive definitive Certificates pursuant to Section 3.09; (iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section 3.06 conflict with any other provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Section 3.06 shall control; and (iv) the rights of the Beneficial Owners shall be exercised only through the Depositary and shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Beneficial Owners and the Depositary or the Depositary Participants; provided that any Beneficial Owner may directly enforce against the Company, without the involvement of the Depositary or any other Person, its right to receive definitive Certificates pursuant to Section 3.09. Transfers of securities evidenced by Global Certificates shall be made through the facilities of the Depositary, and any cancellation of, or increase or decrease in the number of, such securities (including the creation of Stripped Common Equity Units and the recreation of Normal Common 25
Equity Units pursuant to Section 3.13 and Section 3.14 respectively) shall be accomplished by making appropriate annotations on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases for such Global Certificate. Section 3.07 Notices to Holders. Whenever a notice or other communication to the Holders is required to be given under this Agreement, the Company, the Company's agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as the case may be, shall give such notices and communications to the Holders and, with respect to any Common Equity Units registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, the Company, the Company's agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as the case may be, shall, except as set forth herein, have no obligations to the Beneficial Owners. Section 3.08 Appointment of Successor Depositary. If the Depositary elects to discontinue its services as securities depositary with respect to the Common Equity Units, the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Common Equity Units. Section 3.09 Definitive Certificates. If: (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue its services as securities depositary with respect to the Common Equity Units and no successor Depositary has been appointed pursuant to Section 3.08 within 90 days after such notice; or (ii) the Depositary ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act when the Depositary is required to be so registered to act as the Depositary and so notifies the Company, and no successor Depositary has been appointed pursuant to Section 3.08 within 90 days after such notice; or (iii) any event of default has occurred and is continuing under either series of Debentures or this Agreement; or (iv) the Company determines in its sole discretion that the Global Certificates shall be exchangeable for definitive Certificates, then (x) definitive Certificates may be prepared by the Company with respect to such Common Equity Units and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and (y) upon surrender of the Global Certificates representing the Common Equity Units by the Depositary, accompanied by registration instructions, the Company shall cause definitive Certificates to be delivered to Beneficial Owners in accordance with the instructions of the Depositary. The Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on and shall be authorized and protected in relying on, such instructions. Each definitive Certificate so delivered shall evidence Common Equity Units of the same kind and tenor as the Global Certificate so surrendered in respect thereof. 26
Section 3.10 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Certificates. If any mutilated Certificate is surrendered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding. If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Certificate, and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to hold each of them and any agent of any of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that such Certificate has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, a Certificate on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest of any Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate, any Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate, the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall: (i) if the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date or Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate has occurred, deliver to such Holder the shares of Common Stock issuable in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate; or (ii) if a Cash Settlement with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate or if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series A Trust Preferred Securities and the Series B Trust Preferred Securities (in the case of a Termination Event occurring prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date) or the Series B Trust Preferred Securities (in the case of a Termination Event occurring prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date) or the Treasury Securities pledged in substitution for the applicable Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, in each case subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.15 and Article V hereof. 27
Upon the issuance of any new Certificate under this Section, the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may require the payment by the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other fees and expenses (including, without limitation, the fees and expenses of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent) connected therewith. Every new Certificate issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and of the Holder in respect of the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate (and the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby) shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits and be subject to all the obligations of this Agreement equally and proportionately with any and all other Certificates delivered hereunder. The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude, to the extent lawful, all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates. Section 3.11 Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and any agent of the Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, may treat the Person in whose name such Certificate is registered as the owner of the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby for purposes of (subject to any applicable record date) any payment or distribution on the Trust Preferred Securities, payment of Contract Payments and performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever in connection with such Common Equity Units, whether or not such payment, distribution, or performance shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and none of the Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, nor any agent of the Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Certificate, nothing contained herein shall prevent the Company, the Security Registrar, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary (or its nominee), as a Holder, with respect to such Global Certificate, or impair, as between such Depositary and the related Beneficial Owner, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of rights of the Depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such Global Certificate. None of the Company, the Security Registrar, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Certificate or maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. 28
Section 3.12 Cancellation. All Certificates surrendered for delivery of shares of Common Stock on or after the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, as applicable, or upon the transfer of Trust Preferred Securities or for delivery of Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Common Equity Unit, or a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of a Normal Common Equity Unit shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, be delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent along with appropriate written instructions from the Company regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation any Certificates previously authenticated, executed and delivered hereunder that the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Certificates so delivered shall, upon an Issuer Order, be promptly cancelled by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. No Certificates shall be authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement. All cancelled Certificates held by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary practices. If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall acquire any Certificate, such acquisition shall not operate as a cancellation of such Certificate unless and until such Certificate is delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent cancelled or for cancellation. Section 3.13 Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units by Substitution of Treasury Securities. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder may, at any time from and after the date of this Agreement and until 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date, effect a Collateral Substitution and separate the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities from the related Stock Purchase Contracts in respect of all or a portion of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units by substituting for such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of each series, Treasury Securities or portions thereof maturing on the corresponding Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities; provided that Holders may make Collateral Substitutions only in integral multiples of 80 Normal Common Equity Units. To effect such substitution, the Holder must: (1) if the substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, deposit with the Collateral Agent a Treasury Security that has a principal amount payable on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities of $1,000; (2) deposit with the Collateral Agent a Treasury Security that has a principal amount payable on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities of $1,000; and 29
(3) transfer 80 Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) stating that the Holder has deposited the relevant amount of Treasury Securities with the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Collateral Account and (ii) instructing the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to instruct the Collateral Agent to release the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Normal Common Equity Units, whereupon the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly provide an instruction to such effect to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to the Pledge Agreement. Upon receipt of the Treasury Securities described in clauses (1) and (2) above and the instruction described in clause (3) above, in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent will cause the Securities Intermediary to effect the release of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge and the transfer of such Trust Preferred Securities to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder free and clear of the Company's security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly: (ii) cancel the related Normal Common Equity Units; (iii) transfer the Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if prior to the Initial Stock Settlement Date) and Series B Trust Preferred Securities to the Holder (such Trust Preferred Securities shall be tradeable as a separate security, independent of the resulting Stripped Common Equity Units); and (iv) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver Stripped Common Equity Units in book-entry form, or if applicable, in the form of a Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate executed by the Company in accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Stock Purchase Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Normal Common Equity Units. Holders who elect to separate the Trust Preferred Securities from the related Stock Purchase Contracts and to substitute Treasury Securities for such Trust Preferred Securities shall be responsible for any fees or expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses payable to the Collateral Agent for its services as Collateral Agent) in respect of the substitution, and neither the Company nor the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be responsible for any such fees or expenses. In the event a Holder making a Collateral Substitution pursuant to this Section 3.13 fails to effect a book-entry transfer of the Normal Common Equity Units or fails to deliver Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent after depositing Treasury Securities with the Securities Intermediary, any distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities constituting a part of such Normal Common Equity Units shall be held in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until such Normal Common Equity Units are so transferred or the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate is so delivered, as the case may be, or until such Holder provides evidence 30
satisfactory to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that such Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. Except as described in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.13 or in connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Normal Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Normal Common Equity Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities and the Stock Purchase Contract comprising such Normal Common Equity Unit may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Normal Common Equity Unit. Section 3.14 Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units may recreate Normal Common Equity Units (i) at any time until 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date; provided that Holders of Stripped Common Equity Units may only recreate Normal Common Equity Units in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units. To recreate Normal Common Equity Units, the Holder must: (1) if the substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, transfer to the Securities Intermediary Series A Trust Preferred Securities having an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the corresponding Pledged Treasury Securities comprising part of the Stripped Common Equity Units; (2) transfer to the Securities Intermediary Series B Trust Preferred Securities having an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the corresponding Pledged Treasury Securities comprising part of the Stripped Common Equity Units; and (3) transfer the related Stripped Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) stating that the Holder has transferred the relevant amount of Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if the substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date) and Series B Trust Preferred Securities to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account and (ii) instructing the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to instruct the Collateral Agent to release the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Stripped Common Equity Units, whereupon the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly provide an instruction to such effect to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Pledge Agreement. Upon receipt of the Trust Preferred Securities described in clauses (1) and (2) above and the instruction described in clause (3) above, in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, 31
the Collateral Agent will cause the Securities Intermediary to effect the release of the Pledged Treasury Securities having a corresponding aggregate principal amount at maturity from the Pledge and the transfer thereof to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder free and clear of the Company's security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Treasury Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly: (i) cancel the related Stripped Common Equity Units; (ii) transfer the Treasury Securities to the Holder; and (iii) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver Normal Common Equity Units in book-entry form or, if applicable, in the form of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate executed by the Company in accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Stock Purchase Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Stripped Common Equity Units. Holders who elect to recreate Normal Common Equity Units shall be responsible for any fees or expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses payable to the Collateral Agent for its services as Collateral Agent) in respect of the recreation, and neither the Company nor the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be responsible for any such fees or expenses. Except as provided in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.14 or in connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Stripped Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Stripped Common Equity Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Stripped Common Equity Unit in respect of the 1/80 of a Treasury Security and the Stock Purchase Contract comprising such Stripped Common Equity Unit may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Stripped Common Equity Unit. Section 3.15 Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of Termination Event. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event and the transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying the Normal Common Equity Units and the Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall request transfer instructions with respect to such Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from each Holder by written request, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, mailed to such Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register. Upon book-entry transfer of the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped Common Equity Units or delivery of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with such transfer instructions, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall transfer the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, to such Holder by book-entry transfer, or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with such instructions. In the event a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units fails to effect such transfer or delivery, 32
the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and any distributions thereon, shall be held in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until the earlier to occur of: (i) the transfer of such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units or surrender of the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate or the receipt by the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from such Holder of satisfactory evidence that such Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company; and (ii) the expiration of the time period specified in the abandoned property laws of the relevant State in which the Stock Purchase Contract Agent holds such property. Section 3.16 No Consent to Assumption. Each Holder of a Common Equity Unit, by acceptance thereof, shall be deemed expressly to have withheld any consent to the assumption under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise, of the Stock Purchase Contract by the Company or its trustee, receiver, liquidator or a person or entity performing similar functions in the event that the Company becomes the debtor under the Bankruptcy Code or subject to other similar state or Federal law providing for reorganization or liquidation. ARTICLE IV THE TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES Section 4.01 Distributions; Rights to Distributions Preserved. Any payment on any Trust Preferred Security which is paid on any Payment Date shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from the Company (in the case of a Trust Preferred Security that is held in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent) or from the Collateral Agent as provided by the terms of the Pledge Agreement (in the case of a Trust Preferred Security that is held in the name of the Collateral Agent), be paid by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to the Person in whose name the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates) of which such Trust Preferred Securities form a part is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Each Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing the ownership interest in the underlying Trust Preferred Securities delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid interest or distributions, and to accrue distributions, which were carried by the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such other Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate. 33
In the case of any Normal Common Equity Units with respect to which (A) a Cash Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.02(b) or Section 5.02(e) hereof, (B) an Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.07 hereof, (C) a Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii) hereof, (D) a Collateral Substitution is properly effected pursuant to Section 3.13, or (E) a Successful Remarketing occurs with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities that are part of such Normal Common Equity Units, in each case on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Normal Common Equity Units otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Cash Settlement, Early Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement, Collateral Substitution or Successful Remarketing, and such payment or distributions shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, be payable to the Person in whose name the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates) was registered at the close of business on the Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding paragraph, in the case of any Normal Common Equity Units with respect to which Cash Settlement, Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected, or with respect to which a Collateral Substitution has been effected, payments on the related Trust Preferred Securities that would otherwise be payable or made after the Initial Stock Purchase Date (for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities), the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities), Early Settlement Date, Cash Merger Early Settlement Date or the date of the Collateral Substitution, as the case may be, shall not be payable hereunder to the Holder of such Normal Common Equity Units; provided, however, that to the extent that such Holder continues to hold Separate Trust Preferred Securities that formerly comprised a part of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units, such Holder shall be entitled to receive distributions on such Separate Trust Preferred Securities. Section 4.02 Notice and Voting. Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, but only to the extent instructed in writing by the Holders as described below. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of any series of Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of any series of Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage pre-paid, to the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units a notice: (i) containing such information as is contained in the notice or solicitation; (ii) stating that each Holder on the record date set by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be the same date as the record date for determining the holders of the applicable series of Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, entitled to vote) shall be entitled to instruct the Stock 34
Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to such Trust Preferred Securities underlying their Normal Common Equity Units; and (iii) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units on such record date received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at least six days prior to such meeting, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, as to which any particular voting instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Normal Common Equity Unit. The Company hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit Holders of Normal Common Equity Units to timely instruct the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in order to enable the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to vote such Trust Preferred Securities. The Holders of Normal Common Equity Units and Stripped Common Equity Units shall have no voting or other rights in respect of Common Stock. ARTICLE V THE PURCHASE CONTRACTS Section 5.01 Purchase of Shares of Common Stock. (a) Each Stock Purchase Contract shall obligate the Holder of the related Common Equity Unit to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date at a price equal to $12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit (subject to Section 5.09) equal to the applicable Settlement Rate (as defined below) unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The "Settlement Rate" with respect to each Stock Purchase Contract, shall be an amount equal to the sum of the "Daily Amounts" (as defined below) calculated for each Determination Date during the Trading Day Period. The "Daily Amount" for each Determination Date in the Trading Day Period, subject to any then applicable anti-dilution adjustments, is defined as: (i) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price (as defined below) for the Common Stock is less than or equal to the Reference Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to: 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Reference Price (the "Maximum Daily Settlement Rate"), (ii) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than the Threshold Appreciation Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to: 35
1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and (iii) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to: 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price (the "Minimum Daily Settlement Rate" and, together with the Maximum Daily Settlement Rate, the "Fixed Daily Settlement Rates"), in each case subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.04 (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). The Company shall give notice to the Holders if a Market Disruption Event occurs during a day that would otherwise constitute one of the 20 Trading Days in the Trading Day Period for determining the Daily Amounts. If the 20 Trading Days in the Trading Day Period have not occurred prior to the third Business Day immediately prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date, all remaining Trading Days in the Trading Day Period will be determined to occur on that third Business Day and the Closing Price for each of the remaining Trading Days in the Trading Day Period will be the Closing Price per share of the Common Stock on such third Business Day or if such Business Day is not a Trading Day, the Closing Price as determined in its reasonable discretion by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for this purpose. The "Closing Price" of the Common Stock on any Determination Date means: (i) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on that date; or (ii) if the Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed; or (iii) if the Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per share as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market; or (iv) if the Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as the National Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or (v) if the bid price referred to in clause (iv) is not available, the market value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent 36
investment banking firm retained by the Company for purposes of determining the Closing Price. "Determination Date" means any Trading Day in the Trading Day Period on which a portion of the Common Stock deliverable in respect of the applicable Stock Purchase Contract is determined herein. A "Market Disruption Event" means any of the following events that the Company, in its reasonable discretion, determines has occurred and is material: (i) any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading by any exchange or quotation system on which the closing price is determined pursuant to the definition of the Trading Day (a "Relevant Exchange") during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange, or otherwise: (1) relating to Common Stock; or (2) in futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; (ii) any event (other than an event described in clause (iii)) that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Company in its reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange in general: (1) to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or (2) to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or (iii) the failure to open of the Relevant Exchange on which futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock, are traded or the closure of such exchange prior to its respective scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such exchange at least one hour prior to the earlier of: (1) the actual closing time for the regular trading session on such day, and (2) the submission deadline for orders to be entered into such exchange for execution at the actual closing time on such day. A "Trading Day" means a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred or does not exist a Market Disruption Event. 37
"Trading Day Period" means the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on July 9, 2008 for the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on January 7, 2009 for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. (b) Each Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity Unit, by its acceptance of such Common Equity Unit will be deemed to have: (i) duly appointed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Stock Purchase Contract and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf and in its name as its attorney-in-fact (including, without limitation, the execution of Certificates on behalf of such Holder); (ii) irrevocably agreed to be bound by the terms and provisions of such Stock Purchase Contract and the Pledge Agreement; (iii) covenanted and agreed to perform its obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract for so long as such Holder remains a Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity Unit; (iv) irrevocably authorized the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf and in its name as its attorney-in-fact; (v) consents to, and agrees to be bound by, the Pledge of such Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral Account, including the Trust Preferred Securities and the Treasury Securities pursuant to the Pledge Agreement; (vi) for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, agrees to take the positions set forth in Section 10.07(b); (vii) irrevocably directed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to execute the Remarketing Agreement at the direction of the Company, without the receipt of any opinion or certificate, provided that upon a Termination Event, the rights of the Holder of such Common Equity Units under the Stock Purchase Contract may be enforced without regard to any other rights or obligations. (c) Each Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity Unit, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have further covenanted and agreed that to the extent and in the manner provided in Section 5.02 hereof and the provisions of the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, Proceeds of the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as applicable, on the Stock Purchase Date, shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such Proceeds except that any proceeds of the Remarketing in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price applicable to the related Normal Common Equity Units plus the portion of the Remarketing Fee attributable to such 38
Pledged Trust Preferred Securities will be remitted to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the related Normal Common Equity Units. (d) Upon registration of transfer of a Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee) by the terms of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying such Certificate and the Pledge Agreement and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the Certificate so transferred and the Pledge Agreement. The Company covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, likewise shall be deemed to have covenanted and agreed, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. Section 5.02 Remarketing; Payment of Purchase Price. (a) (i) The Company shall conduct a Remarketing of each series of Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with Article X of the relevant Trust Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement. (ii) With respect to any Trust Preferred Securities which constitute part of Normal Common Equity Units which are subject to the Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for each series of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Company reserves all of its rights as a secured party with respect thereto and, subject to applicable law and Section 5.02(c) below, may, among other things, (A) retain such Trust Preferred Securities in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts or (B) sell such Trust Preferred Securities in one or more public or private sales or otherwise. (iii) Prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities may elect to have their Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed under the Remarketing Agreement by delivering their Separate Trust Preferred Securities, along with a notice of such election, substantially in the form of Exhibit F to the Pledge Agreement, to the Custodial Agent. The Custodial Agent shall hold Separate Trust Preferred Securities in an account separate from the Collateral Account in which the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) shall be held. Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities electing to have their Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed will also have the right to withdraw that election by written notice to the Custodial Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit G to the Pledge Agreement, by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, upon which notice the Custodial Agent shall return such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to such Holder. Promptly after 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed. After such time, such election shall become an irrevocable election to have such Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in such Remarketing. 39
(iv) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall give Holders of Common Equity Units, and the Company shall request that the Depositary or its nominee give Depositary Participants holding Common Equity Units and Separate Trust Preferred Securities, notice of a Remarketing at least 21 Business Days prior to the related Remarketing Date. Such notice will set forth the information required to be set forth in the notice pursuant to Section 10.4(a) of the relevant Trust Agreement. (b) (i) Unless an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement has occurred prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date, each Holder of Normal Common Equity Units shall have the right to satisfy such Holder's obligations under the Stock Purchase Contract on such Stock Purchase Date in cash by notifying the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit E hereto of its intention to pay in cash ("Cash Settlement") by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date. Promptly following 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall notify the Collateral Agent of the receipt of such notices from Holders intending to make a Cash Settlement by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto. (ii) A Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit who has so notified the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement shall pay the Purchase Price to the Collateral Agent for deposit in the Collateral Account by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary. Any cash so received shall be paid to the Company on the applicable Stock Purchase Date in partial settlement, in the case of the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and full settlement, in the case of the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, of the Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. (iii) If a Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit does not notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash Settlement in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, or does notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(i) above but fails to make such payment as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, such Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities pursuant to the next applicable Remarketing. (iv) As soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent, based on cash payments received by the Collateral Agent pursuant to Section 5.02(b)(ii) hereof, shall promptly notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of Trust Preferred Securities to be tendered for purchase in the Remarketing in a notice pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement. 40
(v) In the event of a Failed Remarketing in respect of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, (A) the Initial Stock Purchase Date shall be deferred for a quarterly period (except in the case of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, in which case the Stock Purchase Date shall occur on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities), and (B) if the Holders of Common Equity Units have delivered cash in order to effect Cash Settlement in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, the Collateral Agent will promptly return the cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders of Normal Common Equity Units. (vi) In the event of a Failed Remarketing in respect of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, (A) the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date shall be deferred for a quarterly period (except in the case of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, in which case the Stock Purchase Date shall occur on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities), and (B) if the Holders of Common Equity Units have delivered cash in order to effect Cash Settlement in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, the Collateral Agent will promptly return the cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders of Normal Common Equity Units. (vii) In the event of a Successful Remarketing, if the Holders of Common Equity Units have delivered cash in order to effect Cash Settlement, the Collateral Agent will cause (i) the Securities Intermediary to effect the release from the Pledge such Holders related of Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Successful Remarketing as to which such Holders have effected a Cash Settlement and (ii) the transfer of such Trust Preferred Securities to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holders free and clear of the Company's security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly transfer the Trust Preferred Securities to the Holders. (c) The obligations of the Holders to pay the Purchase Price are non-recourse obligations and, except to the extent satisfied by Early Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement or Cash Settlement, are payable solely out of the Proceeds of any Collateral pledged to secure the obligations of the Holders, and in no event will Holders be liable for any deficiency between the Proceeds of the disposition of Collateral and the Purchase Price. (d) The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates thereof to the Holder of the related Common Equity Units unless the Company shall have received payment for the Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner herein set forth. Section 5.03 Issuance of Shares of Common Stock. Unless a Termination Event, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement shall have occurred, subject to Section 5.04(b)(ii), on the applicable Stock Purchase Date upon receipt 41
of the aggregate Purchase Price payable on all Outstanding Common Equity Units, the Company shall issue and deposit with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, for the benefit of the Holders of the Outstanding Common Equity Units, by book entry transfer or in the form of one or more certificates representing newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock registered in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (or its nominee) as custodian for the Holders (such certificates for shares of Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions for which a record date and payment date for such dividend or distribution has occurred after the Stock Purchase Date, being hereinafter referred to as the "Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund") to which the Holders are entitled hereunder. Subject to the foregoing, upon surrender of a Certificate to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on or after the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, the Early Settlement Date or the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, as the case may be, together with settlement instructions thereon duly completed and executed, the Holder of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive forthwith in exchange therefor, by book entry transfer or in the form of a certificate, that whole number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock which such Holder is entitled to receive pursuant to the provisions of this Article V (after taking into account all Common Equity Units then held by such Holder), together with cash in lieu of fractional shares as provided in Section 5.09 and any dividends or distributions with respect to such shares constituting part of the Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund, but without any interest thereon, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. Such shares shall be registered in the name of the Holder or the Holder's designee as specified in the settlement instructions provided by the Holder to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. If any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract are to be registered to a Person other than the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing a Common Equity Unit of which such Stock Purchase Contract forms a part is registered (but excluding any Depositary or nominee thereof), no such registration shall be made unless the Person requesting such registration has paid any transfer and other taxes required by reason of such registration in a name other than that of the registered Holder of the Certificate evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax either has been paid or is not payable. Section 5.04 Adjustment of Fixed Daily Settlement Rates. The Fixed Daily Settlement Rates and the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered upon an Early Settlement will be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances: (a) Adjustments for Dividends, Distributions, Stock Splits, etc. (i) Adjustment for Change in Capital Stock. If, after the date of this Agreement, the Company: (A) pays a dividend or makes another distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock payable exclusively in shares of Common Stock; (B) subdivides or splits the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares; or (C) combines the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of the related Common Equity Units thereafter 42
settled may receive the number of shares of Common Stock which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had settled the Stock Purchase Contract immediately prior to such action. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend, distribution or subdivision and immediately after the effective date in the case of a combination. (ii) Adjustment for Rights Issue. If, after the date of this Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Company distributes any rights, options or warrants, other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment, share purchase or similar plans, to all holders of the Company's Common Stock entitling them to purchase or subscribe for, for a period expiring within 60 days from the date of issuance of the rights or warrants, shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price as of the Time of Determination (as defined in Section 5.04(a) below) (except that no adjustment will be made if Holders of the Common Equity Units may participate in the distribution on a basis and with the notice that the Company's Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate), the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction: (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date fixed for the applicable distribution plus (2) the total number of additional shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase, and (B) the denominator of which is the sum of (1) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date fixed for the distribution plus (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock that the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at the Current Market Price. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 5.04(b)(ii) applies. To the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration (and as a result no additional shares of Common Stock are delivered or issued pursuant to such rights or warrants), the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be readjusted to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery or issuance of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered or issued. (iii) Adjustments for Other Distributions. If, after the date of this Agreement, the Company dividends or distributes to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock any of its debt, Capital Stock, securities or assets or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (1) distributions of Common Stock referred to in Section 5.04(a)(i)(A) and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 5.04(a)(ii) and (2) dividends or 43
distributions that are paid exclusively in cash referred to in Section 5.04(a)(iv)) the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of this Section 5.04(a)(iii), by multiplying them by a fraction: (A) the numerator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock, and (B) the denominator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock minus the fair market value of the portion of those assets distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock. In the event the Company distributes shares of Capital Stock of a subsidiary, the share components will be adjusted, if at all, based on the market value of the subsidiary stock so distributed relative to the market value of the Common Stock, as discussed below. The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 5.05(a)(iii), except that in respect of a dividend or other distribution of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a "Spin-off"), the fair market value of the securities to be distributed shall equal the average of the daily Closing Prices of those securities for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the sixth day of trading of those securities after the effectiveness of the Spin-off. In the event, however, that an underwritten initial public offering of the securities in the Spin-off occurs simultaneously with the Spin-off, fair market value of the securities distributed in the Spin-off shall mean the initial public offering price of such securities and the Current Market Price shall mean the Closing Price for the Common Stock on the same Trading Day. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 5.04(a)(iii) applies, except that an adjustment related to a Spin-off shall become effective at the earlier to occur of (i) 10 Trading Days after the effective date of the Spin-off and (ii) the initial public offering of the securities distributed in the Spin-off. (iv) Cash Dividends and Distributions. In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, pay regular quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash dividends or make any other distributions consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of its Common Stock, excluding any regular cash dividend or distribution on the Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend or distribution per share of Common Stock in any fiscal year does not exceed $0.46 (the "Dividend Threshold Amount") (the Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment on the same basis as the Daily Amounts for any adjustment made pursuant to Section 5.04(a)(i)), then the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates will be adjusted as follows: (A) in the event of a regular dividend to which this Section 5.04(a)(iv) applies, the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates will be adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction, (1) the numerator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock, and (2) the denominator of which is the Current Market Price of Common 44
Stock, minus the excess, if any, of the amount per share of such dividend or distribution over the Dividend Threshold Amount; and (B) in the event of a cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular dividend, the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates will be adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction, (1) the numerator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock, and (2) the denominator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock minus the amount per share of such dividend or distribution. In either case, the adjustment shall be made on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution, to be effective at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution. In the event that any such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, each Fixed Daily Settlement Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. (v) Adjustment for Company Tender Offer. If, after the date of this Agreement, the Company or any subsidiary of the Company pays holders of the Common Stock in respect of a tender or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for Common Stock to the extent that the offer involves aggregate consideration that, together with (A) any cash and the fair market value of any other consideration payable in respect of any tender offer (other than an odd-lot offer) by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for shares of Common Stock consummated within the preceding 12 months not triggering a Settlement Rate adjustment and (B) all-cash distributions to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock made within the preceding 12 months (other than regular quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash dividends), exceeds an amount equal to 10% of the aggregate market capitalization of the Company on the expiration date of the tender offer, the share components will be adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction, (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the aggregate consideration payable based upon the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of all shares of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the last time tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the "Expiration Time") (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being referred to as the "Purchased Shares") and (2) the product of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (less any Purchased Shares) at the Expiration Time and (y) the closing price of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time, and (B) the denominator of which will be the product of (1) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding, including any Purchased Shares, at the Expiration Time and (2) the Closing Price of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time. 45
(vi) Calculation of Adjustments. All adjustments to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be calculated by the Company to the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No adjustment to the Settlement Rate shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or a decrease of at least one percent; provided that any adjustments not made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment and notwithstanding whether or not such 1/10,000th of a share threshold shall have been met, all such adjustments shall be made on the applicable Stock Purchase Date. If an adjustment is made to the Settlement Rate pursuant to paragraph (i) through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a), an adjustment shall also be made to the Closing Price for the Company's Common Stock solely to determine which of clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Daily Amount in Section 5.01(a) will apply on each Determination Date. Such adjustment shall be made by multiplying the Closing Price for the Company's Common Stock by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate immediately after such adjustment pursuant to paragraph (i) through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a) and the denominator of which shall be the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate immediately before such adjustment; provided that if such adjustment to the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate is required to be made pursuant to the occurrence of any of the events contemplated by paragraph (i) through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a) during the period taken into consideration for determining the Daily Amounts, appropriate and customary adjustments shall be made to such Fixed Daily Settlement Rate. (vii) When No Adjustment Required. No adjustment of the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates, and the number of shares to be delivered on Early Settlement need be made as a result of: (1) the issuance of the rights; (2) the distribution of separate certificates representing the rights; (3) the exercise or redemption of the rights in accordance with any rights agreement; or (4) the termination or invalidation of the rights, in each case, pursuant to the Company's stockholder rights plan existing on the date of this Agreement, as amended, modified, or supplemented from time to time, or any newly adopted stockholder rights plans; provided, however, that to the extent that the Company has a stockholder rights plan in effect upon settlement of a Stock Purchase Contract (including the Company's rights plan existing on the date of this Agreement), the Holder shall receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the rights under such rights plan, unless, prior to any settlement of a Stock Purchase Contract, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company made a distribution to all holders of Common Stock as described in clause (iii) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of the rights. In addition, no adjustment to Fixed Daily Settlement Rates need be made: (A) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; 46
(B) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (C) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Common Equity Units were first issued. No adjustment to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates need be made for a transaction referred to in 5.04(a)(ii) or 5.04(a)(iii) if Holders of the Common Equity Units may participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. No adjustment to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock. (viii) Use of Terms. "Time of Determination" means the time and date of the earlier of (A) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution in each case, to which Section 5.04(a)(ii) or Section 5.04(a)(iii) applies and (B) the time ("Ex-Dividend Time") immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the NYSE or such other U.S. national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock are then listed or quoted. "Current Market Price" per share of Common Stock on any day means the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each Determination Date ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the "ex date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "ex date," when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade without the right to receive the issuance or distribution. (ix) Adjustments During Trading Day Period. If an event requiring an adjustment occurs on any Determination Date during the Trading Day Period, the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate calculated for each Determination Date before the event requiring an adjustment occurs will be adjusted in the same manner as the adjustment to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates for each Determination Date on or after the event requiring an adjustment occurs pursuant to the procedures described above. (b) Adjustment for Consolidation, Merger or Other Reorganization Event. In the event of (1) any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company is the continuing corporation and in which the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger or consolidation are not exchanged for cash, securities other property of the Company or another corporation), (2) any 47
sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, (3) any statutory exchange of securities of the Company with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition) or any binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes its outstanding Common Stock, or (4) any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company other than as a result of or after the occurrence of a Termination Event (any such event, a "Reorganization Event"), (i) each share of Common Stock covered by each Stock Purchase Contract forming part of a Common Equity Unit immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be converted for purposes of the Stock Purchase Contract into the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon, and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date) per share of Common Stock by a holder of Common Stock that (A) is not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a "Constituent Person"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-Affiliates, and (B) failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by a Person other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof and in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("Non-electing Share"), then for the purpose of this Section 5.04 the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event in respect of each Non-electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share of Common Stock by a plurality of the Non-electing Shares). On the Stock Purchase Date, the Settlement Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on the Stock Purchase Date of such securities, cash or other property. In the event of such a Reorganization Event, the Person formed by such consolidation, merger or exchange or the Person which acquires the assets of the Company or, in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, the Company or a liquidating trust created in connection therewith, shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent an agreement supplemental hereto providing that the Holder of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit shall have the rights provided by this Section 5.04. Such supplemental agreement shall provide for adjustments which, for events subsequent to the effective date of such supplemental agreement, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 5.04. The above provisions of this Section 5.04 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events. (c) Successive Adjustments. After an adjustment to a Fixed Daily Settlement Rate under this Section 5.04, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Section 5.04 shall cause an adjustment to such Fixed Daily Settlement Rate as so adjusted. 48
(d) Multiple Adjustments. For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that would trigger an adjustment to a Fixed Daily Settlement Rate pursuant to this Section 5.04 under more than one subsection hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in multiple adjustments hereunder. Section 5.05 Notice of Adjustments and Certain Other Events. (a) Whenever a Fixed Daily Settlement Rate is adjusted as provided under Sections 5.04(a) or 5.04(b), the Company shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Company is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware): (i) compute the adjusted applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate in accordance with Section 5.04 and prepare and transmit to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate, as the case may be, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and (ii) provide a written notice to the Holders of the Common Equity Units of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate. (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Common Equity Units to determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 5.05(a)(i) and any adjustment contained therein and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any Stock Purchase Contract; and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Stock Purchase Contract or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article V. Section 5.06 Termination Event; Notice. The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Payments), if the Company shall have such obligation, and the rights and obligations of Holders to purchase Common Stock, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the 49
necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, prior to or on the Stock Purchase Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Common Equity Units shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming part of such Common Equity Units, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.04 of the Pledge Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Section 5.07 Early Settlement. (a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 5.07, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase Contracts underlying Common Equity Units having an aggregated Stated Amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof may be settled early ("Early Settlement") at any time until 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date; provided that no Early Settlement will be permitted pursuant to this Section 5.07 unless, at the time such Early Settlement is effected, there is an effective Registration Statement with respect to any securities to be issued and delivered in connection with such Early Settlement, if such a Registration Statement is required (in the view of counsel, which need not be in the form of a written opinion, for the Company) under the Securities Act. If such a Registration Statement is so required, the Company covenants and agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) have in effect a Registration Statement covering any securities to be delivered in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts being settled and (ii) provide a Prospectus in connection therewith, in each case in a form that may be used in connection with such Early Settlement. (b) In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Stock Purchase Contracts, the Holder of the Certificate evidencing Common Equity Units shall deliver such Certificate to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office duly endorsed for transfer to the Company or in blank with the "Election to Settle Early" form on the reverse thereof duly completed and accompanied by payment (payable to the Company in immediately available funds) in an amount (the "Early Settlement Amount") equal to the sum of: (i) the product of (A) the Stated Amount times (B) the number of Stock Purchase Contracts with respect to which the Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, plus (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, no payment shall be made upon Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contract on account of any Contract Payments 50
accrued on such Stock Purchase Contract or on account of any dividends on the Common Stock issued upon such Early Settlement. If the foregoing requirements are first satisfied with respect to Stock Purchase Contracts underlying any Common Equity Units by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, such day shall be the "Early Settlement Date" with respect to such Common Equity Units and if such requirements are first satisfied after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, the "Early Settlement Date" with respect to such Common Equity Units shall be the next succeeding Business Day. Upon the receipt of such Certificate and Early Settlement Amount from the Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall pay to the Company such Early Settlement Amount, the receipt of which payment the Company shall confirm in writing. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall then, in accordance with Section 5.06 of the Pledge Agreement, notify the Collateral Agent that (A) such Holder has elected to effect an Early Settlement, which notice shall set forth the number of such Stock Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement and (B) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Early Settlement Amount. Holders of Stripped Common Equity Units may only effect Early Settlement pursuant to this Section 5.07 in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units. Upon Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contracts, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Payments) with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts shall immediately and automatically terminate. (c) Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Common Equity Units, the Company shall issue, and the Holder shall be entitled to receive, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock equal to the Minimum Settlement Rate, as adjusted in the same manner and the same time as the Fixed Settlement Settlement Rates are adjusted (the "Early Settlement Rate"). (d) No later than the third Business Day after the applicable Early Settlement Date, the Company shall cause: (i) the shares of Common Stock issuable upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts to be issued and delivered, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09; and (ii) the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, in the case of Normal Common Equity Units, or the related Pledged Treasury Securities, in the case of Stripped Common Equity Units, to be released from the Pledge by the Collateral Agent, free and clear of the Company's security interest therein, and transferred, in each case, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for delivery to the Holder thereof or its designee. (e) Upon Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts, and subject to receipt of shares of Common Stock from the Company and the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from the Securities Intermediary, as applicable, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, in accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder 51
thereof on the applicable form of Election to Settle Early on the reverse of the Certificate evidencing the related Common Equity Units: (i) transfer to the Holder the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming a part of such Common Equity Units, (ii) deliver to the Holder by book-entry transfer or in the form of a certificate or certificates for the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09, as received from the Company, and (iii) if so required under the Securities Act, deliver a Prospectus for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement as contemplated by (a), as received from the Company. (f) In the event that Early Settlement is effected with respect to Stock Purchase Contracts underlying less than all the Common Equity Units evidenced by a Certificate, upon such Early Settlement the Company shall execute and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall execute on behalf of the Holder, authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a Certificate evidencing the Common Equity Units as to which Early Settlement was not effected. (g) A Holder of a Common Equity Unit who effects Early Settlement may elect to have the Preferred Trust Securities no longer a part of a Normal Common Equity Unit remarketed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.02. Section 5.08 No Fractional Shares. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered upon settlement on any Stock Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts. If Certificates evidencing more than one Stock Purchase Contract shall be surrendered for settlement at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock that shall be delivered upon settlement shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by the Certificates so surrendered. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock that would otherwise be deliverable upon settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts on the Stock Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, the Company, through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall make a cash payment in respect of such fractional interest in an amount equal to the percentage of such fractional share times the Closing Price as of the Trading Day immediately preceding such Stock Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement. The Company shall provide the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from time to time with sufficient funds to permit the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to make all cash payments required by this Section 5.08 in a timely manner. Section 5.09 Charges and Taxes. The Company will pay all stock transfer and similar taxes attributable to the initial issuance and delivery of the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contracts; 52
provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any such tax or taxes which may be payable in respect of any exchange of or substitution for a Certificate evidencing a Common Equity Unit or any issuance of a share of Common Stock in a name other than that of the registered Holder of a Certificate surrendered in respect of the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby, other than in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as custodian for such Holder, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver such share certificates or Certificates unless or until the Person or Persons requesting the transfer or issuance thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid. Section 5.10 Contract Payments. (a) Subject to Section 5.10(d) and Section 5.11, the Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Payments (net of any withholding tax required by law to be withheld by the Company on such payments, which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) payable in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name a Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date relating to such Payment Date. The Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City maintained for that purpose. If the book-entry system for the Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. If any date on which Contract Payments are to be made is not a Business Day, then payment of the Contract Payments payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest in respect of such delay). Contract Payments payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Contract Payments will accrue from June 21, 2005. (b) Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company's obligation to pay future Contract Payments (including any accrued Contract Payments) shall cease. (c) Each Certificate delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of (including as a result of a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) any other Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid Contract Payments, which right was carried by the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying such other Certificates. (d) In the case of any Common Equity Units with respect to which Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is effected on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, Contract Payments otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, and such Contract Payments shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Common Equity Units is registered at the close of business on such Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, and the right to receive accrued and unpaid Contract Payments as set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii), in the case of any Common Equity 53
Units with respect to which Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is effected, Contract Payments that would otherwise be payable after the Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contract shall not be payable. (e) The Company's obligations with respect to Contract Payments, if any, will be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the Company's obligations under any existing or future Senior Debt. (f) In the event of (A) any insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition or other similar proceeding relating to the Company, its creditors or its property, (B) any proceeding for the liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, voluntary or involuntary, whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, (C) any assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors, or (D) any other marshalling of the assets of the Company: (i) all existing and future Senior Debt (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall first be paid in full before any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, shall be made to any Holder of Common Equity Units; (ii) any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, which would otherwise (but for these subordination provisions) be payable or deliverable in respect of the Common Equity Units shall be paid or delivered directly to the holders of existing and future Senior Debt in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders until all existing and future Senior Debt (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall have been paid in full; (iii) after payment in full of all sums owing with respect to Senior Debt, the Holders of Common Equity Units, together with the holders of any obligations of the Company ranking on a parity with the Common Equity Units, shall be entitled to be paid from the remaining assets of the Company the amounts at the time due and owing on account of unpaid Contract Payments and interest thereon and such other obligations before any payment or other distribution, whether in cash, property or otherwise, shall be made on account of any capital stock or any obligations of the Company ranking junior to the Company's obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts and such other obligations; and (iv) in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of any character or any security, whether in cash, securities or other property, shall be received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units in contravention of any of the terms hereof such payment or distribution or security shall be received in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered and transferred to, the holders of the Senior Debt at the time outstanding in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders for application to the payment of all secured and Senior Debt remaining unpaid, to the extent necessary to pay all such existing and future Senior Debt in full. In the event of the failure of the Stock Purchase 54
Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units to endorse or assign any such payment, distribution or security, each holder of existing and future Senior Debt is hereby irrevocably authorized to endorse or assign the same. (g) For purposes of Section 5.11(e) through (q), the words "cash, property or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other Person provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which is subordinated at least to the extent provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q) with respect to such Contract Payments on the Common Equity Units to the payment of all existing and future Senior Debt which may at the time be outstanding; provided that (i) the indebtedness or guarantee of indebtedness, as the case may be, that constitutes Senior Debt is assumed by the Person, if any, resulting from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders of the Senior Debt are not, without the consent of each such holder adversely affected thereby, altered by such reorganization or readjustment. (h) Any failure by the Company to make any payment on or perform any other obligation under existing and future Senior Debt, other than any indebtedness incurred by the Company or assumed or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by the Company for money borrowed (or any deferral, renewal, extension or refunding thereof) or any indebtedness or obligation as to which the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) shall have been waived by the Company in the instrument or instruments by which the Company incurred, assumed, guaranteed or otherwise created such indebtedness or obligation, shall not be deemed a default or event of default under this Agreement if (i) the Company shall be disputing its obligation to make such payment or perform such obligation and (ii) either (A) no final judgment relating to such dispute shall have been issued against the Company which is in full force and effect and is not subject to further review, including a judgment that has become final by reason of the expiration of the time within which a party may seek further appeal or review, or (B) in the event a judgment that is subject to further review or appeal has been issued, the Company shall in good faith be prosecuting an appeal or other proceeding for review and a stay of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or review. (i) Subject to the irrevocable payment in full of all existing and future Senior Debt, the Holders of the Common Equity Units shall be subrogated (equally and ratably with the holders of all obligations of the Company which by their express terms are subordinated to Senior Debt of the Company to the same extent as payment of the Contract Payments in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the Common Equity Units is subordinated and which are entitled to like rights of subrogation) to the rights of the holders of Senior Debt to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to the Senior Debt until all such Contract Payments owing on the Common Equity Units shall be paid in full, and as between the Company, its creditors other than holders of such Senior Debt and the Holders, no such payment or distribution made to the holders of Senior Debt by virtue of Section 5.10(e) through (q) that otherwise would have been made to the Holders shall be deemed to be a payment by the Company on account of such Senior Debt, it being understood that the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders, on the one hand, and the holders of Senior Debt, on the other hand. 55
(j) Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) or elsewhere in this Agreement or in the Common Equity Units is intended to or shall impair, as among the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Debt and the Holders, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay to the Holders such Contract Payments on the Common Equity Units as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or is intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the Holders and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Debt, nor shall anything herein or therein prevent the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Agreement, subject to the rights, if any, under Section 5.10(e) through (q), of the holders of Senior Debt in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy. (k) Upon payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree made by any court of competent jurisdiction in which any such dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization proceeding affecting the affairs of the Company is pending or upon a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidating trustee or Stock Purchase Contract Agent or other person making any payment or distribution, delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or to the Holders, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution, the holders of the Senior Debt and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Section 5.10(e) through (q). (l) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Debt (or a trustee or representative on behalf of such holder) to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of Senior Debt or a trustee or representative on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Debt to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as to the amount of Senior Debt held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under Section 5.10(e) through (q), and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may defer payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment. (m) Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) shall affect the obligations of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, payment of the Contract Payments, except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.10(e) through (q). (n) Each Holder of Common Equity Units, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have authorized and directed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q) and appointed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent its attorney-in-fact, as the case may be, for any and all such purposes. 56
(o) The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys to or by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in respect of the Common Equity Units pursuant to the provisions of this Section. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.11(e) through (q) or any other provisions of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys to or by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, or the taking of any other action by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, unless and until the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have received written notice thereof mailed or delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at its Corporate Trust Office department from the Company, any Holder, or the holder or representative of any Senior Debt; provided that if at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys may become payable for any purpose, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not have received with respect to such moneys the notice provided for in this Section, then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have full power and authority to receive such moneys and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be received by it within two Business Days prior to or on or after such date. (p) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Section with respect to any Senior Debt at the time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Debt and nothing in this Agreement shall deprive the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of any of its rights as such holder. (q) No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Debt to enforce the subordination herein shall at any time or in any way be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any noncompliance by the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Agreement, regardless of any knowledge thereof which any such holder may have or be otherwise charged with. (r) Nothing in this Section 5.10 shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent under or pursuant to Section 7.07. (s) With respect to the holders of existing and future Senior Debt, (i) the duties and obligations of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Agreement; (ii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable to any such holders if it shall, acting in good faith, mistakenly pay over or distribute to the Holders or to the Company or any other Person cash, property or securities to which any holders of existing and future Senior Debt shall be entitled by virtue of this Section 5.11 or otherwise; (iii) no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Stock Purchase Contract Agent; and (iv) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary as to such holders. Section 5.11 Deferral of Contract Payments. (a) The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to February 15, 2010, to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise payable on any Payment Date, but 57
only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer each such deferred Contract Payment (specifying the amount to be deferred) at least ten Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding Payment Date or (ii) the date the Company is required to give notice of the Record Date or Payment Date with respect to payment of such Contract Payments to the NYSE or other applicable self-regulatory organization or to Holders of the Common Equity Units, but in any event not less than one Business Day prior to such Record Date. Any Contract Payments so deferred shall, to the extent permitted by law, accrue interest thereon at the rate of 6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until paid in full (such deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together with the additional Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred to herein as the "Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be due on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that payment is deferred pursuant to this Section 5.11. No Contract Payments may be deferred to a date that is after February 15, 2010 and no such deferral period may end other than on a Payment Date. If the Stock Purchase Contracts are terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Holder's right to receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred Contract Payments, will terminate. (b) In the event that the Company elects to defer the payment of Contract Payments on the Stock Purchase Contracts until a Payment Date prior to the Stock Purchase Date, then all Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be payable to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the Record Date immediately preceding such Payment Date. (c) In the event that the Company elects or is directed by the Federal Reserve Board to defer the payment of Contract Payments on the Stock Purchase Contracts, each Holder will receive in respect of such deferred payments on the Stock Purchase Date in lieu of a cash payment, in the sole discretion of the Company, either (i) a number of shares of Common Stock (in addition to a number of shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to the Settlement Rate) equal to (A) the aggregate amount of Deferred Contract Payments payable to such Holder (net of any required tax withholding on such Deferred Contract Payment, which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) divided by (B) (1) in the case of Contract Payments payable on or before the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the greater of (x) the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (y) $14.45, and (2) in the case of Contract Payments payable after the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the greater of (x) Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date) and (y) $14.45, subject in each case to adjustment in the same manner and under the same circumstances as the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates pursuant to Section 5.04, or (ii) Unsecured Notes which will (A) have a principal amount equal to the aggregate amount of Deferred Contract Payments, (B) mature on August 15, 2010, (C) bear interest at an annual rate equal to the then market rate of interest for similar instruments (not to exceed 10%), as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Company, (D) be subordinate and rank junior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future Senior Debt on the same basis as the Contract Payments, and (E) not be redeemable by the Company prior to their stated maturity. (d) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued by the Company with respect to the payment of Deferred Contract Payments on the Stock Purchase Date. In lieu of 58
fractional shares otherwise issuable with respect to such payment of Deferred Contract Payments, the Holder will be entitled to receive an amount in cash as provided in Section 5.08. (e) In the event the Company exercises its option to defer the payment of Contract Payments then, until the earlier of (x) the Termination Date or (y) the date on which the Deferred Contract Payments have been paid, the Company shall not (A) declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of the Company's Capital Stock; (B) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem the other series of junior subordinated debt securities or any debt securities issued by the Company that rank equally with or junior to the Company's junior subordinated debt securities (except for partial payments of interest with respect to the junior subordinated debt securities); and (C) make any payment under any guarantee that ranks equally with or junior to the Company's guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities other than, in each case: (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (y) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the case may be; (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company's subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of capital stock of the Company; (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto; (v) payments by the Company under the Guarantee related to the applicable Trust Preferred Securities; or (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock. 59
ARTICLE VI REMEDIES Section 6.01 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Contract Payments and to Purchase Shares of Common Stock. Each Holder of a Common Equity Unit shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, (i) subject to Article V, to receive each Contract Payment with respect to the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of such Common Equity Units on the respective Payment Date for such Common Equity Units and (ii) except upon and following a Termination Event, to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to such Stock Purchase Contract and, in each such case, to institute suit for the enforcement of any such right to receive Contract Payments and the right to purchase shares of Common Stock, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. Section 6.02 Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Agreement and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company and such Holder shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of such Holder shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. Section 6.03 Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates in the last paragraph of Section 3.10, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. Section 6.04 Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of any Holder to exercise any right upon a default or remedy upon a default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such right. Every right and remedy given by this Article VI or by law to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by such Holders. Section 6.05 Undertaking for Costs. All parties to this Agreement agree, and each Holder of a Common Equity Unit, by its acceptance of such Common Equity Units shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this 60
Agreement, or in any suit against the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% of the Outstanding Common Equity Units, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of interest on any Trust Preferred Securities or Contract Payments on or after the respective Payment Date therefor in respect of any Common Equity Units held by such Holder, or for enforcement of the right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Stock Purchase Contracts constituting part of any Common Equity Units held by such Holder. Section 6.06 Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Agreement; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Holders, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE VII THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT Section 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities. (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent: (i) undertakes to perform, with respect to the Common Equity Units, such duties and only such duties as are or will be specifically set forth in this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement against the Stock Purchase Contract Agent; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith or negligence on its part, may, with respect to the Common Equity Units, conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and conforming to the requirements of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, as applicable, but in the case of any certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not 61
they conform to the requirements of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, as applicable (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of the mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). (b) No provision of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of subsection (a) of this Section; (ii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be conclusively determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) no provision of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement shall require the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or thereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. (c) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be subject to the provisions of this Article. (d) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent is authorized to execute and deliver the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement in its capacity as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Section 7.02 Notice of Default. Within 30 days after the occurrence of any default by the Company hereunder of which a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has actual knowledge, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall transmit by mail to the Company and the Holders of Common Equity Units, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder, unless such default shall have been cured or waived. Section 7.03 Certain Rights of Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01: (a) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, in the absence of bad faith, conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, 62
Trust Preferred Securities, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate, Issuer Order or Issuer Request, and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution; (c) whenever in the administration of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed in this Agreement) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate of the Company; (d) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder, or under the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, in good faith and in reliance thereon; (e) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may make reasonable further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters related to the execution, delivery and performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts, and, if the Stock Purchase Contract Agent makes such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the relevant books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; (f) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may execute any of the powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder, or under the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians or nominees or an Affiliate and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent, attorney, custodian or nominee or an Affiliate appointed with due care by it hereunder; (g) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (h) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in the absence of bad faith or negligence by it; (i) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have notice of any default hereunder unless a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event that is in fact such a default is received 63
by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and such notice references the Common Equity Units and this Agreement; (j) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Agreement, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; (k) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; (l) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be required to initiate or conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder and shall have no responsibilities with respect to any default hereunder except as expressly set forth herein; and (m) In each case that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may or is required hereunder or under the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement to take any action, including without limitation to make any determination or judgment, to give consents, to exercise rights, powers or remedies, or otherwise to act hereunder or thereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may seek direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units. If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall request direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units with respect to any action, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to refrain from such action unless and until such the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have received direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not incur liability to any Person by reason of so refraining. Section 7.04 Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Common Equity Units. The recitals contained herein, in the Pledge Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement and in the Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent assumes no responsibility for their accuracy or validity. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of either this Agreement or of the Common Equity Units, or of the Pledge Agreement or the Pledge or the Collateral and shall have no responsibility for perfecting or maintaining the perfection of any security interest in the Collateral. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the proceeds in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts. 64
The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall only be responsible for transferring money, securities or other property in accordance with the terms herein to the extent that such money, securities or other property are actually received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Section 7.05 May Hold Common Equity Units. Any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates, in their individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Common Equity Units and may otherwise deal with the Company, the Collateral Agent or any other Person with the same rights it would have if it were not Security Registrar or such other agent, or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Company may become the owner or pledgee of Common Equity Units. Section 7.06 Money Held in Custody. Money held by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in custody hereunder need not be segregated from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's other funds except to the extent required by law or provided herein. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to invest or pay interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise provided hereunder or agreed in writing with the Company. Section 7.07 Compensation and Reimbursement. The Company agrees: (a) to pay to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder, under the Pledge Agreement and under the Remarketing Agreement as the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall from time to time agree in writing; (b) except as otherwise expressly provided for herein, to reimburse the Stock Purchase Contract Agent upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel) in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement and any modification, supplement or waiver of any of the terms thereof, except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith; and (c) to indemnify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and any predecessor Stock Purchase Contract Agent (and each of its directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, the "Indemnitees") for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, claim, damage, fine, penalty, liability or expense (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties hereunder and under the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement, including the Indemnitees' reasonable costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other Person) 65
or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's powers or duties hereunder or thereunder. The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation or removal of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the termination of this Agreement. Section 7.08 Corporate Stock Purchase Contract Agent Required, Eligibility. There shall at all times be a Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder which shall be a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having (or being a member of a bank holding company having) a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority and having a corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, if there be such a Person in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, qualified and eligible under this Article VII and willing to act on reasonable terms. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article VII. Section 7.09 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) No resignation or removal of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and no appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to this Article VII shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company 30 days prior to the effective date of such resignation. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Stock Purchase Contract Agent may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent. (c) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after such Act, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent being removed may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment at the expense of the Company of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent. 66
(d) If at any time: (i) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent fails to comply with Section 310(b) of the TIA, as if the Stock Purchase Contract Agent were an indenture trustee under an indenture qualified under the TIA, and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at least six months; (ii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible under Section 7.8 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder; or (iii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, or (ii) any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent. (e) If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Stock Purchase Contract Agent for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. If no successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at least six months, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent. (f) The Company shall give, or shall cause such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent to give, notice of each resignation and each removal of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and each appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the applicable Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. Section 7.10 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, every such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring 67
Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall become effective and such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, agencies and duties of the retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, such retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent and duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all property and money held by such retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder. (b) Upon request of any such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all such rights, powers and agencies referred to in subsection (a) of this Section. (c) No successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VII. (d) No successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall at the same time act as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and the Company shall not act as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Section 7.11 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall be the successor of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article VII, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Certificates shall have been authenticated and executed on behalf of the Holders, but not delivered, by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such Stock Purchase Contract Agent may adopt such authentication and execution and deliver the Certificates so authenticated and executed with the same effect as if such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent had itself authenticated and executed such Common Equity Units. Section 7.12 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders. (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in its capacity as Security Registrar. (b) If three or more Holders (herein referred to as "Applicants") apply in writing to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and furnish to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Common Equity Unit for a period of at least six 68
months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Agreement or under the Common Equity Units and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall mail to all the Holders copies of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the materials to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of such mailing. Section 7.13 No Obligations of Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent assumes no obligations and shall not be subject to any liability under this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement or any Stock Purchase Contract in respect of the obligations of the Holder of any Common Equity Units thereunder. The Company agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have agreed, that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's execution of the Certificates on behalf of the Holders shall be solely as agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders, and that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have no obligation to perform such Stock Purchase Contracts on behalf of the Holders, except to the extent expressly provided in Article V hereof. Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or its officers, directors, employees or agents be liable under this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement to any third party for indirect, incidental, special, punitive, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and regardless of the form of action. Section 7.14 Tax Compliance. (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on its own behalf and on behalf of the Company, will comply with all applicable certification, information reporting and withholding (including "backup" withholding) requirements imposed by applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative practice with respect to (i) any payments made with respect to the Common Equity Units or (ii) the issuance, delivery, holding, transfer, redemption or exercise of rights under the Common Equity Units. Such compliance shall include, without limitation, the preparation and timely filing of required returns and the timely payment of all amounts required to be withheld to the appropriate taxing authority or its designated agent. (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall comply in accordance with the terms hereof with any written direction received from the Company with respect to the execution or certification of any required documentation and the application of such requirements to particular payments or Holders or in other particular circumstances, and may for purposes of this Agreement conclusively rely on any such direction in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.01(a) hereof. (c) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall maintain all appropriate records documenting compliance with such requirements, and shall make such records available, on 69
written request, to the Company or its authorized representative within a reasonable period of time after receipt of such request. ARTICLE VIII SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS Section 8.01 Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more agreements supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to: (a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Certificates; (b) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; (c) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent; (d) make provision with respect to the rights of Holders pursuant to the requirements of Section 5.04(b); (e) cure any ambiguity (or formal defect) or correct or supplement any provisions herein which may be inconsistent with any other provisions herein; or (f) make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions arising under this Agreement, provided that such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect. Section 8.02 Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units voting together as one class, including without limitation the consent of the Holders obtained in connection with a tender or an exchange offer, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, when duly authorized, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may enter into an agreement or agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of modifying in any manner the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts, or the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of the Holders in respect of the Common Equity Units; provided, however, that, except as contemplated herein, no such supplemental agreement shall, without the unanimous consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit affected thereby, (a) change any Payment Date; 70
(b) change the amount or the type of Collateral required to be Pledged to secure a Holder's obligations under the Stock Purchase Contract, impair the right of the Holder of any Common Equity Unit to receive distributions on the related Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral or adversely alter the rights in or to such Collateral; (c) reduce any Contract Payments or change any place where, or the coin or currency in which, any Contract Payment is payable; (d) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any Stock Purchase Contract or any Contract Payments; (e) reduce the number of shares of Common Stock or the amount of any other property to be purchased pursuant to any Stock Purchase Contract, increase the price to purchase shares of Common Stock or any other property upon settlement of any Stock Purchase Contract or change the Stock Purchase Date or the right to Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights under the Stock Purchase Contract; or (f) reduce the percentage of the Outstanding Common Equity Units the consent of whose Holders is required for any modification or amendment to the provisions of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts or the Pledge Agreement; provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely affect only the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped Common Equity Units, then only the affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of Holders of not less than a majority of such class; and provided, further, that the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Common Equity Unit of such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal specified in clauses (a) through (f) above. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental agreement, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. Section 8.03 Execution of Supplemental Agreements. In executing, or accepting the additional agencies created by, any supplemental agreement permitted by this Article VIII or the modifications thereby of the agencies created by this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be provided, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully authorized and protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that the execution of such supplemental agreement is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that any and all conditions precedent to the execution and delivery of such supplemental agreement have been satisfied. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental agreement which affects the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or otherwise. 71
Section 8.04 Effect of Supplemental Agreements. Upon the execution of any supplemental agreement under this Article VIII, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental agreement shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder, shall be bound thereby. Section 8.05 Reference to Supplemental Agreements. Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered after the execution of any supplemental agreement pursuant to this Article VIII may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Company as to any matter provided for in such supplemental agreement. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Company, to any such supplemental agreement may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in exchange for outstanding Certificates. ARTICLE IX CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE Section 9.01 Covenant Not to Consolidate, Merge, Convey, Transfer or Lease Property Except under Certain Conditions. The Company covenants that it will not consolidate with, convert into, or merge with and into, any other corporation or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless: (a) either the Company shall be the continuing corporation, or the successor (if other than the Company) shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof or the District of Columbia and such corporation shall expressly assume all the obligations of the Company under the Stock Purchase Contracts, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Agreements, and the Remarketing Agreement by one or more supplemental agreements in form reasonably satisfactory to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent, executed and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent by such corporation; and (b) the Company or such successor corporation, as the case may be, shall not, immediately after such consolidation, conversion, merger, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, be in default of payment obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, either Trust Agreement, or the Remarketing Agreement or in material default in the performance of any other covenants under any of the foregoing agreements. 72
Section 9.02 Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation. In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance and upon any such assumption by a successor corporation in accordance with Section 9.01, such successor corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the Company. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the name of the Company, any or all of the Certificates evidencing Common Equity Units issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent; and, upon the order of such successor corporation, instead of the Company, and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Agreement prescribed, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate and execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver any Certificates which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for authentication and execution, and any Certificate evidencing Common Equity Units which such successor corporation thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for that purpose. All the Certificates issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Agreement as the Certificates theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Agreement as though all of such Certificates had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Certificates evidencing Common Equity Units thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate. Section 9.03 Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel Given to Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.03, shall receive an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article IX and that all conditions precedent to the consummation of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance have been met. ARTICLE X COVENANTS Section 10.01 Performance Under Stock Purchase Contracts. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units that it will duly and punctually perform its obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and this Agreement. 73
Section 10.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City an office or agency where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for acquisition of shares of Common Stock upon settlement of the Stock Purchase Contracts either the Stock Purchase Date or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement and for transfer of Collateral upon occurrence of a Termination Event, where Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, for a Collateral Substitution or recreation of Normal Common Equity Units and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Common Equity Units and this Agreement may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. The Company initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as such office of the Company. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office, and the Company hereby appoints the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for any or all purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates as the place of payment for the Common Equity Units the Corporate Trust Office and appoints the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at its Corporate Trust Office as paying agent in such city. Section 10.03 Company to Reserve Common Stock. The Company shall at all times prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock the full number of shares of Common Stock then issuable against tender of payment in respect of all Stock Purchase Contracts constituting a part of the Common Equity Units evidenced by Outstanding Certificates. Section 10.04 Covenants as to Common Stock. The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued against tender of payment in respect of any Stock Purchase Contract constituting a part of the Outstanding Common Equity Units will, upon issuance, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. Section 10.05 Statements of Officers of the Company as to Default. The Company will deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the 74
performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which the Company have knowledge. Section 10.06 ERISA. Each Holder from time to time of the Common Equity Units that is a Plan or who used assets of a Plan to purchase Common Equity Units hereby represents that either (i) no portion of the assets used by such Holder to acquire the Normal Common Equity Units constitutes assets of the Plan or (ii) the purchase or holding of the Normal Common Equity Units by such purchaser or transferee will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code or similar violation under any applicable laws. Section 10.07 Tax Treatment. (a) The Company covenants and agrees, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, to (i) treat a Holder's acquisition of the Normal Common Equity Units as the acquisition of the Trust Preferred Securities and Stock Purchase Contract constituting the Normal Common Equity Units and (ii) treat each Holder as the owner of the applicable interest in the Collateral Account, including the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities. (b) Each Holder of Common Equity Units shall be deemed to have agreed, by acceptance of Common Equity Units, and each Beneficial Owner shall be deemed to have agreed, by acceptance of a beneficial interest in Common Equity Units, to treat for all United States federal income tax purposes (i) MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III as grantor trusts, (ii) itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as applicable, pledged under the Pledge Agreement, (iii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Company, and (iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in each ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities included in each Normal Common Equity Unit as $12.50 and the fair market value of each Stock Purchase Contract as $0. SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE 75
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC. By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. --------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P.MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel --------------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signer 76
EXHIBIT A (FORM OF FACE OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE) {For inclusion in Global Certificates only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS THE NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.} No. _________ CUSIP No. Number of Normal Common Equity Units: ___________________ METLIFE, INC. Normal Common Equity Units This Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate certifies that {Cede & Co.} is the registered Holder of the number of Normal Common Equity Units set forth above {for inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Normal Common Equity Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in the Global Certificate attached hereto}. Each Normal Common Equity Unit consists of (i) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date a 1/80 beneficial ownership interest of the Holder in one series A trust preferred security (the "series A trust preferred securities") of MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the series A trust preferred security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (ii) a 1/80 beneficial ownership interest of the Holder in one series B trust preferred security (the "series B trust preferred security") of MetLife Capital Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the series B trust preferred A-1
securities by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (iii) one Stock Purchase Contract with MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein. Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Preferred Securities, constituting part of each Normal Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby have been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of such Normal Common Equity Units. The Pledge Agreement provides that all distributions on any Pledged Trust Preferred Securities constituting part of the Normal Common Equity Units received by the Securities Intermediary shall be paid by wire transfer in same day funds (i) in the case of (A) distributions on Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to the account designated by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, no later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary (provided that in the event such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary on a day that is not a Business Day or after 12:30 p.m., New York City time, on a Business Day, then such payment shall be made no later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day) and (ii) in the case of payments with respect to the liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, to the Company on the Stock Purchase Date (as described herein) in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, in full satisfaction of the respective obligations of the Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units of which such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities are a part under the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Normal Common Equity Units. Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities forming part of a Normal Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby, which are payable quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005 (a "Payment Date"), shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from the Securities Intermediary, be paid to the Person in whose name this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (or a Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at a price equal to $12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly issued or treasury shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company, per Normal Common Equity equal to the applicable Settlement Rate, unless on or prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event or an Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement with respect to such Stock Purchase Contract, all as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse hereof. The Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the applicable Stock Purchase Date by application of payment received in respect of the liquidation amount with respect to any Pledged Trust Preferred Securities pursuant to the Remarketing pledged to secure the obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract of the Holder of the Normal Common Equity Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part. A-2
Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, to treat (i) itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities pledged under the Pledge Agreement, (ii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Company, (iii) MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III as grantor trusts and (iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in the Series A Trust Preferred Securities as $12.50, the fair market value of each ownership interest in the Series B Trust Preferred Securities as $12.50 and the fair market value of the Stock Purchase Contract as $0. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract forming part of a Normal Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "Contract Payments") equal to (1) from and including the issue date to but excluding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate of 1.510% of the Stated Amount and (2) from and including the initial stock purchase date to but excluding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate of 1.465% of the remaining Stated Amount, subject to its rights provided for in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement to defer Contract Payments. Such Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities and the Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. A-3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused this instrument to be duly executed. METLIFE, INC. By: ______________________________________ Name: Title: HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to obligations of such Holder under the Stock Purchase Contracts) J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as attorney- in-fact of such Holder as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: ______________________________________ Name: Title: Date: _________________ A-4
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION OF STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT This is one of the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates referred to in the within mentioned Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: ___________________________________ Name: Title: Date: ______________________ A-5
(FORM OF REVERSE OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE) Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors hereunder, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT"), to which Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference, is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date at a price equal to $12.50 (the "PURCHASE PRICE"), a number of shares of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to the applicable Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The "SETTLEMENT RATE" is equal to the sum of the Daily Amounts. The "DAILY AMOUNT" for each Trading Day during the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on July 9, 2008 for the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on January 7, 2009 for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (each, a "DETERMINATION DATE") equals: (1) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is less than or equal to $43.35 (the "REFERENCE PRICE"), a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by Reference Price, (2) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than $53.10 (the "THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE"), a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and (3) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by Threshold Appreciation Price, in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). A-6
No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled through Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of the related Normal Common Equity Units to purchase at the Purchase Price, and the Company to sell, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock equal to the Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement). The "CLOSING PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means: (1) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on that date; (2) if Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States national or regional securities exchange on which Common Stock is so listed; (3) if Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per share as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market.; (4) if Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by the PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as) National Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or (5) if the bid price referred to above is not available, the market value of Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for purposes of determining the Closing Price. A "TRADING DAY" means a day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and a day on which there has not occurred or does not exist a Market Disruption Event as provided by Section 5.01(a) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate may pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby by effecting a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or, if applicable, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or from the proceeds of or a Remarketing of the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities. A Holder of Normal Common Equity Units who (1) does not, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash A-7
Settlement, or who does so notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent but fails to make an effective Cash Settlement on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date, or (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Early Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the related Stock Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the sale of the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities held by the Collateral Agent in the Remarketing unless the Holder has previously made a Cash Merger Early Settlement. Such sale will be made by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement on the applicable Remarketing Date. Upon the occurrence of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will exercise its rights as a secured party with respect to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying the Normal Common Equity Units, and may, among other things, (A) retain such Trust Preferred Securities in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts or (B) sell such Trust Preferred Securities in one or more public or private sales or otherwise. In the event of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Company will issue a note, payable on August 15, 2010 and bearing interest at the rate of 4.91%, in the amount of any accrued and unpaid distributions on such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities as of February 15, 2009 or February 15, 2010, respectively, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for delivery to the Holders of the related Trust Preferred Securities. The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, but only to the extent instructed in writing by the Holders. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage pre-paid, to the Normal Common Equity Units Holders a notice: (1) containing such information as is contained in the notice or solicitation; (2) stating that each Holder on the record date set by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be the same date as the record date for determining the holders of Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, entitled to vote) shall be entitled to instruct the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of the A-8
voting rights pertaining to the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units; and (3) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the Normal Common Equity Units Holders on such record date received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at least six days prior to such meeting, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum aggregate liquidation amount of Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, as to which any particular voting instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting the Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by such Normal Common Equity Units. The Company hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit Holders of Normal Common Equity Units to timely instruct the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in order to enable the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to vote the Trust Preferred Securities. The Holders of Normal Common Equity Units shall have no voting or other rights in respect of Common Stock. Upon the occurrence of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, cause the Securities Intermediary to transfer the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities upon confirmation of deposit by the Remarketing Agent of the proceeds of such Successful Remarketing in the Collateral Account. The Remarketing Agent will deduct a remarketing fee in accordance with the terms of the Remarketing Agreement. With respect to Pledged Trust Preferred Securities upon a Successful Remarketing, any proceeds of the Remarketing in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price applicable to the related Normal Common Equity Units plus the portion of the Remarketing Fee attributable to such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities will be remitted to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the related Normal Common Equity Units. The Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Normal Common Equity Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate will be registered and Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to substitute a Treasury Security for a Trust Preferred Security, thereby creating Stripped Common Equity Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable in connection therewith. Except as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Normal Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Normal Common Equity Units shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Normal Common Equity Units in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities and Stock Purchase Contract constituting such Normal Common Equity Units may be transferred and exchanged only as a Normal Common Equity Unit. A-9
Subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, a Holder may, at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date, effect a Collateral Substitution and separate the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities from the related Stock Purchase Contracts in respect of all or a portion of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units by substituting for such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Treasury Securities or portions thereof in an aggregate liquidation amount at maturity equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities; provided that Holders may make Collateral Substitutions only in integral multiples of 80 Normal Common Equity Units. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Payments payable in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to the February 15, 2010, to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise payable on any Payment Date, but only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer each such deferred Contract Payment pursuant to Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Any Contract Payments so deferred shall, to the extent permitted by law, accrue additional Contract Payments thereon at the rate of 6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until paid in full (such deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together with the additional Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred to herein as the "Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be due on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that payment is deferred pursuant to the Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. No Contract Payments may be deferred to a date that is after the Stock Purchase Date and no such deferral period may end other than on a Payment Date. If the Stock Purchase Contracts are terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Holder's right to receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred Contract Payments, will terminate. The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, on or prior to either Stock Purchase Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge in accordance with the A-10
provisions of the Pledge Agreement. A Normal Common Equity Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Trust Preferred Securities forming a part of such Normal Common Equity Units in accordance with the terms of, and except as set forth in, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase Contracts underlying Common Equity Units may be settled early ("EARLY SETTLEMENT") at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Stock Purchase Contract evidenced by this Certificate, the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office prior to the time specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement an Election to Settle Early form set forth below duly completed and accompanied by payment in the form of immediately available funds payable to the order of the Company in an amount (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT AMOUNT") equal to the sum of: (i) the product of (A) the Stated Amount times (B) the number of Stock Purchase Contracts with respect to which the Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, plus (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts. Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Common Equity Units, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock adjusted in the same manner and at the same time as the Settlement Rate is adjusted (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT RATE"). Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract underlying such Normal Common Equity Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Normal Common Equity Units, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Normal Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement. Upon registration of transfer of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement), under the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations A-11
under the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. The Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, irrevocably authorizes the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Stock Purchase Contracts forming part of the Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Stock Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Stock Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, irrevocably authorizes the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to, and agrees to be bound by, the Pledge of such Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral Account, including the Trust Preferred Securities underlying this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments with respect to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities on the applicable Stock Purchase Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments. Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority in number of the outstanding Common Equity Units. The Stock Purchase Contracts and Common Equity Units shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered as the owner of the Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving distributions payable on the Trust Preferred Securities, receiving payments of Contract Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Stock Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock. A copy of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement is available for inspection at the Corporate Trust Office. A-12
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM: as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT: ______________ Custodian _____________ (cust)(minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of -------------------- TENANT: as tenants by the entireties JT TEN: as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D. or other Identifying Number of Assignee) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please print or type name and address including Postal Zip code of Assignee) the within Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney __________________, to transfer said Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates on the books of the Security Registrar, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: Signature ______________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever. Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________ A-13
SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the {Initial} {Subsequent} Stock Purchase Date of the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Normal Common Equity Units evidenced by this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: ___________________________________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ______________ (if assigned to another person) If shares are to be registered in the REGISTERED HOLDER name of and delivered to a Person other than the Holder, please (i) print such Please print name and address of Person's name and address and (ii) Registered Holder: provide a guarantee of your signature: ____________________________ _________________________________ Name Name ____________________________ _________________________________ Address Address ____________________________ _________________________________ ____________________________ _________________________________ ____________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any A-14
ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY/CASH MERGER EARLY SETTLEMENT The undersigned Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement following a Cash Merger} in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Normal Common Equity Units evidenced by this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate specified below. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or other securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate representing any Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Trust Preferred Securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: Signature _____________________ Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________ Number of Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is being elected: If shares of Common Stock or Normal Common REGISTERED HOLDER Equity Unit Certificates are to be registered in the name of and delivered to and Pledged Trust Preferred Securities are to be transferred to a Person other than the Holder, please print such Person's name and address: Please print name and address of Registered Holder: _______________________________ ________________________________ Name Name _______________________________ ________________________________ Address Address _______________________________ ________________________________ _______________________________ ________________________________ _______________________________ ________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer A-15
Identification Number, if any Transfer Instructions for Pledged Trust Preferred Securities transferable upon {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} or a Termination Event: A-16
{TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES} SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made: A-17
EXHIBIT B (FORM OF FACE OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE) {For inclusion in Global Certificate only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.} No. _________ CUSIP No. Number of Stripped Common Equity Units: ___________________ METLIFE, INC. Stripped Common Equity Units This Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate certifies that {Cede & Co.} is the registered Holder of the number of Stripped Common Equity Units set forth above {for inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Stripped Common Equity Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in the Global Certificate attached hereto}. Each Stripped Common Equity Unit consists of (i) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, a 1/80 undivided beneficial ownership interest of a Treasury Security that matures as of the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date having a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (ii) a 1/80 undivided beneficial ownership interest of a Treasury Security that matures as of the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, with a principal amount at maturity of $1,000 subject to the Pledge of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (iii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Stock Purchase Contract with MetLife, Inc, a Delaware corporation (the B-1
"COMPANY"). All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein. Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Treasury Securities constituting part of each Stripped Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby have been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of such Stripped Common Equity Units. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at a price equal to $12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly issued or treasury shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company, equal to the applicable Settlement Rate, unless on or prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event or an Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement with respect to such Stock Purchase Contract, all as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse hereof. The Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the applicable Stock Purchase Date by application of the proceeds from the Treasury Securities at maturity pledged to secure the obligations of the Holder under such Stock Purchase Contract of the Stripped Common Equity Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, (i) to treat itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Treasury Securities pledged under the Pledge Agreement, and (ii) the fair market value of each Stock Purchase Contract as $0. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract forming part of a Stripped Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "CONTRACT PAYMENTS") equal to (1) from and including the issue date to but excluding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate of 1.510% of the Stated Amount and (2) from and including the initial stock purchase date to but excluding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate of 1.465% of the remaining Stated Amount, subject to its rights provided for in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement to defer Contract Payments. Such Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Stripped Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. B-2
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused this instrument to be duly executed. METLIFE, INC. By: ________________________________ Name: Title: HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to obligations of such Holder under the Stock Purchase Contracts) By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as attorney-in-fact of such Holder as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Date: _____________________ B-3
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION OF STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT This is one of the Stripped Common Equity Units referred to in the within-mentioned Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. J. P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: _____________________________________________ Name: Title: Dated: __________________________________________ B-4
(FORM OF REVERSE OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE) Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors hereunder, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT"), to which Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference, is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date at a price equal to $12.50 (the "PURCHASE PRICE"), a number newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to the applicable Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The "SETTLEMENT RATE" is equal to the sum of the Daily Amounts. The "DAILY AMOUNT" for each Trading Day during the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on July 9, 2008 for the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on January 7, 2009 for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (each, a "DETERMINATION DATE") equals: (1) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is less than or equal to $43.35 (the "REFERENCE PRICE), a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Reference Price, (2) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than $53.10(the "THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE"), a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and (3) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to 1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price, in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). B-5
No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled through Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of the related Stripped Common Equity Units to purchase at the Purchase Price, and the Company to sell, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock equal to the Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement). The "CLOSING PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means: (1) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on such date; (2) if Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States national or regional securities exchange on which Common Stock is so listed; (3) if Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per share as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market; (4) if Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as the National Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or (5) if the bid price referred to above is not available, the market value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for purposes of determining the Closing Price. A "TRADING DAY" means a day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and a day on which there has not occurred or does not exist a Market Disruption Event as provided by Section 5.01(a) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Units shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of the Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby either by effecting an Early Settlement or, if applicable, a Cash Merger Early Settlement of each such Stock Purchase Contract or by applying a principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Holder's Stripped Common Equity Units equal to the Stated Amount of such Stock Purchase Contract to the purchase of the Common Stock. A Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units who (1) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day B-6
prior to the Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Early Settlement or (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Cash Merger Early Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the related Stock Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the Pledged Treasury Securities. The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate purchase price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. The Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Stripped Common Equity Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate will be registered and Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to substitute Trust Preferred Securities for Treasury Securities, thereby recreating Normal Common Equity Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses associated therewith. Except as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Stripped Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Stripped Common Equity Units shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Stripped Common Equity Units in respect of the Treasury Security and the Stock Purchase Contract constituting such Stripped Common Equity Units may be transferred and exchanged only as a Stripped Common Equity Unit. Subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units may recreate, at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date, Normal Common Equity Units by delivering to the Securities Intermediary (1) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, Series A Trust Preferred Securities and Series B Trust Preferred Securities and (2) and after the Initial Stock Purchase Date, Series B Trust Preferred Securities, in each case with an aggregate liquidation amount, equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the corresponding Pledged Treasury Securities in exchange for the release of such Pledged Treasury Securities in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. From and after such substitution, the Holder's Common Equity Units shall be referred to as a "NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNITS." Any such creation of Normal Common Equity Units may be effected only in multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units for 80 Normal Common Equity Units. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Payments (net of any withholding tax imposed on such payments, which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) payable in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name the Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract is registered B-7
at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to February 15, 2010, to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise payable on any Payment Date, but only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer each such deferred Contract Payment pursuant to Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Any Contract Payments so deferred shall, to the extent permitted by law, accrue additional Contract Payments thereon at the rate of 6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until paid in full (such deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together with the additional Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred to herein as the "Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be due on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that payment is deferred pursuant to the Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. No Contract Payments may be deferred to a date that is after the Stock Purchase Date and no such deferral period may end other than on a Payment Date. If the Stock Purchase Contracts are terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Holder's right to receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred Contract Payments, will terminate. The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, on or prior to either Stock Purchase Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Treasury Securities (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) in accordance with the provisions of the Pledge Agreement. A Stripped Common Equity Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the interest in the Treasury Security forming a part of such Stripped Common Equity Units, in accordance with the terms of and except as set forth in, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase Contracts underlying Common Equity Units may be settled early ("EARLY SETTLEMENT") as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Stock Purchase Contract evidenced by this Certificate, the Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office an Election to Settle Early form set forth below duly completed and accompanied by B-8
payment in the form of immediately available funds payable to the order of the Company in an amount (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT AMOUNT") equal to the sum of: (i) $25.00 times the number of Stock Purchase Contracts being settled, if settled on or prior to the fifth business day immediately preceding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and thereafter $12.50 times the number of Stock Purchase Contracts being settled, if settled on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, plus (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts. Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Common Equity Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock adjusted in the same manner and at the same time as the Settlement Rate is adjusted (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT RATE"). Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract underlying such Stripped Common Equity Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Stripped Common Equity Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Stripped Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement. Upon registration of transfer of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement), under the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. The Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, authorizes the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Stock Purchase Contracts forming part of the Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Stock Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Stock Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, authorizes the B-9
Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Treasury Securities underlying this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments in respect to the aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities on the Stock Purchase Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments. Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units. The Stock Purchase Contracts, and Common Equity Units shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration or transfer, the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered as the owner of the Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving payments of interest on the Treasury Securities, receiving payments of Contract Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Stock Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock. A copy of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement is available for inspection at the Corporate Trust Office. B-10
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM: as tenants in common Custodian ---------------------------------------------------------- UNIF GIFT MIN ACT: (cust) (minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of ---------------------------------------------------------- TENANT: as tenants by the entireties JT TEN: as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D. or other Identifying Number of Assignee) the within Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney __________________, to transfer said Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates on the books of the Security Registrar, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: Signature _____________________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever. Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________ B-11
SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the {Initial}{Subsequent} Stock Purchase Date of the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced by this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: ____________________________________ If shares are to be registered in the name of and delivered to a Person other than the Holder, please (i) print such Person's name and address and (ii) provide a guarantee of your signature: ____________________________________________ Name _____________________________________ Address ____________________________________________ ____________________________________________ ____________________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ____________________________________________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ____________________ (if assigned to another person) B-12
ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY/CASH MERGER EARLY SETTLEMENT The undersigned Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement upon a Cash Merger} in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced by this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate specified below. The option to effect {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} may be exercised only with respect to Stock Purchase Contracts underlying Stripped Common Equity Units with an aggregate Stated Amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or other securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate representing any Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which Cash Merger Early Settlement of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Treasury Securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: _______________________________ Signature ____________________________ Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________ Number of Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is being elected: If shares of Common Stock or REGISTERED HOLDER Stripped Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates are to be registered in the name of [Please print name and address] and delivered to and Pledged Treasury Securities are to be transferred to a Person other than the Holder, please print such Person's name and address: B-13
REGISTERED HOLDER Please print name and address of Registered Holder: _____________________ ___________________________________________________ Name Name _____________________ ___________________________________________________ Address Address _____________________ ___________________________________________________ _____________________ ___________________________________________________ _____________________ ___________________________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any Transfer Instructions for Pledged Treasury Securities Transferable upon {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} or a Termination Event: B-14
{TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES} SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made: B-15
EXHIBIT C INSTRUCTION TO STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association as Stock Purchase Contract Agent Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, New York 10004 Re: {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} of MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"). The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you that it has delivered to JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account, $_____ aggregate [liquidation] [principal] amount of {Trust Preferred Securities} {Treasury Securities} in exchange for the {Pledged Trust Preferred Securities} {Pledged Treasury Securities} held in the Collateral Account, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between you, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. The undersigned Holder has paid all applicable fees and expenses relating to such exchange. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to instruct the Collateral Agent to release to you on behalf of the undersigned Holder the {Pledged Trust Preferred Securities} {Pledged Treasury Securities} related to such {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units}. Date: ________________________ _______________________________ Signature Guarantee: _______________________________ Please print name and address of Registered Holder: _______________________________ ________________________________ _______________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any Address ________________________________ ________________________________ ________________________________ C-1
EXHIBIT D NOTICE FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO HOLDERS (Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of a Termination Event) {HOLDER} ________________________________ ________________________________ Attention: Telecopy: ______________________ Re: {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} of MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY") Please refer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units and Stripped Common Equity Units from time to time. We hereby notify you we have received notice that a Termination Event has occurred and that {the Trust Preferred Securities} {the Treasury Securities} comprising a portion of your ownership interest in ______, {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} have been released and are being held by us for your account pending receipt of transfer instructions with respect to such {Trust Preferred Securities} {Treasury Securities} (the "RELEASED SECURITIES"). Pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, we hereby request written transfer instructions with respect to the Released Securities. Upon receipt of your instructions and upon transfer to us of your {Normal Common Equity Units}{Stripped Common Equity Units} effected through book-entry or by delivery to us of your {Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate}{Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate}, we shall transfer the Released Securities by book-entry transfer or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with your instructions. In the event you fail to effect such transfer or delivery, the Released Securities and any distributions thereon, shall be held in our name, or a nominee in trust for your benefit, until such time as such {Normal Common Equity Units}{Stripped Common Equity Units} are transferred or your {Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate} {Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate} is surrendered or satisfactory evidence is provided that such {Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate}{Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate} has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnification that we or the Company may require. D-1
Dated: By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, ___________________ NATIONAL ASSOCIATION _________________________________ By: Name: Title: Authorized Signatory D-2
EXHIBIT E NOTICE TO SETTLE BY CASH J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association as Stock Purchase Contract Agent Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, New York 10004 Re: Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY") The undersigned Holder hereby irrevocably notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and you, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of the Stock Purchase Contracts, that such Holder has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account, at or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds), $[ ] as the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company with respect to Stock Purchase Contracts on the Stock Purchase Date. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to notify promptly the Collateral Agent of the undersigned Holders' election to make such Cash Settlement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contracts related to such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units. Dated: ____________________ By: ___________________________ By: Name: Title: Authorized Signatory E-1
EXHIBIT F NOTICE FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT (Settlement of Stock Purchase Contract through Remarketing) J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, National Association as Collateral Agent Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, New York 10004 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY") Please refer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. In accordance with Section 5.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and, based on notices of Cash Settlements received from Holders of Normal Common Equity Units as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time), on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date, we hereby notify you that Trust Preferred Securities in an aggregate liquidation amount of $[ ] are to be tendered for purchase in the Remarketing. Dated: ____________________ By: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent By: ____________________________________ Name: Title: Authorized Signatory F-1

EXHIBIT 4.4 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PLEDGE AGREEMENT among METLIFE, INC. and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, As Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, As Stock Purchase Contract Agent Dated as of June 21, 2005 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) iii
EXHIBITS: EXHIBIT A - Instruction from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units) EXHIBIT B - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units) EXHIBIT C - Instruction from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) EXHIBIT D - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) EXHIBIT E - Notice of Cash Settlement from Collateral Agent to Stock Purchase Contract Agent EXHIBIT F - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Remarketing EXHIBIT G - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Withdrawal From Remarketing SCHEDULE I - Contact Persons for Confirmation i
PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005 among MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as collateral agent (in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"), as custodial agent (in such capacity, the "Custodial Agent"), and as securities intermediary (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC) with respect to the Collateral Account (in such capacity, the "Securities Intermediary"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as stock purchase contract agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units (in such capacity, the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent") under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. RECITALS WHEREAS, the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent are parties to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated as of the date hereof (as modified and supplemented and in effect from time to time, the "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement"), pursuant to which 72,000,000 Normal Common Equity Units (or 82,800,000 Normal Common Equity Units if the option granted to the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement is exercised) will be issued. WHEREAS, each Normal Common Equity Unit, at issuance, consists of a unit comprised of (a) a stock purchase contract (a "Stock Purchase Contract") pursuant to which the Holder will purchase from the Company on each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, for an amount equal to $12.50 on each such date, a number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ("Common Stock") equal to the Settlement Rate, (b) a 1/80, or 1.25%, beneficial ownership interest in a Series A Trust Preferred Security with a liquidation amount of $1,000 (the "Series A Trust Preferred Securities"); and (c) a 1/80, or 1.25%, beneficial ownership interest in a Series B Trust Preferred Security with a liquidation amount of $1,000 (the "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" and, with the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, each a series of "Trust Preferred Securities"). WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contracts, the Holders of the Common Equity Units have irrevocably authorized the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact of such Holders, among other things, to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of such Holders and to grant the pledge provided herein of the Collateral to secure the Obligations. NOW, THEREFORE, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01 Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders; (b) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision; (c) the following terms which are defined in the UCC shall have the meanings set forth therein: "Certificated Security," "Control," "Financial Asset," "Entitlement Order," "Securities Account" and "Security Entitlement;" (d) capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; and (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(e): "Agreement" means this Pledge Agreement, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Cash" means any coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for payment of public and private debts. "Collateral" means the collective reference to: (i) the Series A Collateral Account, the Series B Collateral Account and all investment property and other financial assets from time to time credited thereto and all security entitlements with respect thereto, including, without limitation, (A) the Trust Preferred Securities and security entitlements relating thereto that are a component of the Normal Common Equity Units from time to time, (B) any Treasury Securities and security entitlements relating thereto delivered from time to time upon creation of Stripped Common Equity Units in accordance with Section 5.02 hereof and (C) payments made by Holders pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof; (ii) all Proceeds of any of the foregoing (whether such Proceeds arise before or after the commencement of any proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, by or against the pledgor or with respect to the pledgor); and (iii) all powers and rights now owned or hereafter acquired under or with respect to the Collateral. "Collateral Account" means the Series A Collateral Account and/or the Series B Collateral Account, as the context requires. 2
"Collateral Agent" means the Person named as the "Collateral Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement. "Common Stock" has the meaning specified in the second paragraph of the recitals of this Agreement. "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor. "Custodial Agent" means the Person named as the "Custodial Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement. "Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Final Failed Remarketing" means a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date (as defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement) for each series of the Trust Preferred Securities, "Initial Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Obligations" means, with respect to each Holder, all obligations and liabilities of such Holder under such Holder's Stock Purchase Contract, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and this Agreement or any other document made, delivered or given in connection herewith or therewith, in each case whether on account of principal, interest (including, without limitation, interest accruing before and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to such Holder, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Company or the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary that are required to be paid by the Holder pursuant to the terms of any of the foregoing agreements). "Permitted Investments" means any one of the following, in each case maturing on the Business Day following the date of acquisition: (i) any evidence of indebtedness with an original maturity of 365 days or less issued, or directly and fully guaranteed or insured, by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged in support of the timely payment thereof or such indebtedness constitutes a general obligation of it); 3
(ii) deposits, certificates of deposit or acceptances with an original maturity of 365 days or less of any institution which is a member of the Federal Reserve System having combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500 million at the time of deposit (and which may include the institution acting as Collateral Agent); (iii) investments with an original maturity of 365 days or less of any Person that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a bank referred to in clause (ii); (iv) repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements relating to marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America or issued by any agency thereof and backed as to timely payment by the full faith and credit of the United States of America; (v) investments in commercial paper, other than commercial paper issued by the Company or its Affiliates, of any corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof, which commercial paper has a rating at the time of purchase at least equal to "A-1" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") or at least equal to "P-1" by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"); and (vi) investments in money market funds (including, but not limited to, money market funds managed by the institution acting as the Collateral Agent or an affiliate of the institution acting as the Collateral Agent) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, rated in the highest applicable rating category by S&P or Moody's. "Pledge" means the lien and security interest created by this Agreement. "Pledged Securities" means the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged Treasury Securities, collectively. "Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities" means Series A Trust Preferred Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Series A Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities" means Series B Trust Preferred Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Series B Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Trust Preferred Securities" means the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities. "Pledged Series A Treasury Securities" means Treasury Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto maturing on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities from time to time credited to the Series A Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Series B Treasury Securities" means Treasury Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto maturing on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for 4
the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from time to time credited to the Series B Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Treasury Securities" means the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities and/or the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities, as the context requires. "Proceeds" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 9-102(a)(64) of the UCC and includes, without limitation, all interest, dividends, cash, instruments, securities, financial assets and other property received, receivable or otherwise distributed upon the sale (including, without limitation, the Remarketing), exchange, collection or disposition of any financial assets from time to time held in a Collateral Account. "Reset Rate", in respect of either series of Trust Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement under which such series was issued. "Securities Intermediary" means the Person named as the "Securities Intermediary" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Securities Intermediary" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement. "Series A Collateral Account" means the securities account of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A." "Series B Collateral Account" means the securities account of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B." "Series A Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stated Amount" means (i) $25 prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (ii) $12.50 thereafter. "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning specified in the second paragraph of the recitals of this Agreement. 5
"Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means the Person named as the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, and thereafter "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of the recitals of this Agreement. "Subsequent Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Trades" means the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to the Trades Regulations. "Trades Regulations" means the regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury, published at 31 C.F.R. Part 357, as amended from time to time. Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms defined in the Trades Regulations are used herein as therein defined. "Transfer" means (i) in the case of certificated securities in registered form, delivery as provided in Section 8-301(a) of the UCC, endorsed to the transferee or in blank by an effective endorsement, (ii) in the case of Treasury Securities, registration of the transferee as the owner of such Treasury Securities on Trades and (iii) in the case of security entitlements, including, without limitation, security entitlements with respect to Treasury Securities, a securities intermediary indicating by book entry that such security entitlement has been credited to the transferee's securities account. "Trust Agreement" means each of the Amended and Restated Declarations of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees (each as named therein) and the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III. "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York from time to time. "Value" means, with respect to any item of Collateral on any date, as to (1) Cash, the face amount thereof, (2) Trust Preferred Securities, the aggregate liquidation amount thereof and (3) Treasury Securities, the aggregate principal amount thereof. ARTICLE II PLEDGE SECTION 2.01. Pledge. Each Holder, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as such Holder's attorney-in-fact, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, acting solely as such attorney-in-fact, hereby pledges and grants to the Collateral Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the 6
Company, a continuing first priority security interest in and to, and a lien upon and right of set-off against, all of such Person's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral to secure the prompt and complete payment and performance when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations. The Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights, remedies and recourses with respect to the Collateral afforded a secured party by the UCC, in addition to, and not in limitation of, the other rights, remedies and recourses afforded to the Collateral Agent by this Agreement. SECTION 2.02. Control. The Collateral Agent shall have control of the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement. SECTION 2.03. Termination. As to each Holder, this Agreement and the Pledge created hereby shall terminate upon the satisfaction of such Holder's Obligations. Upon receipt of notice from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of such termination, the Collateral Agent shall, except as otherwise provided herein, instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer such Holder's portion of the Collateral to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. ARTICLE III DISTRIBUTIONS ON PLEDGED COLLATERAL SECTION 3.01. Income and Distributions. The Collateral Agent shall transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders as provided in the Stock Purchase Contracts or Stock Purchase Contract Agreement all income and distributions received by the Collateral Agent on account of (i) the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities or Permitted Investments from time to time held in the Series A Collateral Account and (ii) the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities or Permitted Investments from time to time held in the Series B Collateral Account. SECTION 3.02. Payments Following Termination Event. Following a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall transfer all payments of liquidation amounts or principal it receives, if any, in respect of (1) the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities and (2) the Pledged Treasury Securities, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. SECTION 3.03. Payments Prior to or on Stock Purchase Date. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 5.06, and except as provided in Section 3.03(b) and Section 3.03(c) below, if no Termination Event shall have occurred, 7
(b) all payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of (x) the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities and (y) the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities shall be held in the Series A Collateral Account and invested in Permitted Investments until the Initial Stock Purchase Date; (c) the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities shall be transferred to the Company on the Initial Stock Purchase Date as provided in Section 5.07 hereof. Any balance remaining in the Series A Collateral Account on the Initial Stock Purchase Date shall be released from the Pledge by the Collateral Agent, and the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to, and the Securities Intermediary shall, Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent such balance for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created thereby; (d) all payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of (x) the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities and (y) the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities shall be held in the Series B Collateral Account and invested in Permitted Investments until the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date; (e) the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities shall be transferred to the Company on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date as provided in Section 5.07 hereof. Any balance remaining in the Series B Collateral Account on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date shall be released from the Pledge by the Collateral Agent, and the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to, and the Securities Intermediary shall, Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent such balance for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created thereby; (f) The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the Permitted Investments in which any payments made under this Section 3.03(a) shall be invested; provided, however, that if the Company fails to deliver such instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the day such payments are received by the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent shall invest such payments in the Permitted Investments as described in clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments. The Collateral Agent shall have no liability in respect of losses incurred as a result of the failure of the Company to provide written investment direction. The Collateral Agent may conclusively rely on any written direction and shall bear no liability for any loss or other damage based on acting or omitting to act under this Section 3.03 pursuant to any direction of the Company and neither the Collateral Agent nor the Securities Intermediary shall in any way be liable for the selection of Permitted Investments or by reason of any insufficiency in a Collateral Account resulting from any loss on any Permitted Investment included therein. (g) All payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of (1) the Trust Preferred Securities and (2) the 8
Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto, that, in each case, have been released from a Pledge pursuant hereto shall be transferred to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests. (h) In the event of a Failed Remarketing (other than a Final Failed Remarketing) with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, principal payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities shall be invested in Treasury Securities maturing on the next Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities in a principal amount equal to the aggregate stated amount of the related Stripped Common Equity Units, which Treasury Securities shall be considered Pledged Series A Treasury Securities for the purpose of this Agreement. The Collateral Agent shall remit any remaining funds, after application of principal payments received in respect of Series A Treasury Securities to purchase new Series A Treasury Securities, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent who shall remit such funds to the Holders of the related Stripped Common Equity Units on a pro rata basis. (d) In the event of a Failed Remarketing (other than a Final Failed Remarketing) with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, principal payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities shall be invested in Treasury Securities maturing on the next Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities in a principal amount equal to the aggregate stated amount of the related Stripped Common Equity Units, which Treasury Securities shall be considered Pledged Series B Treasury Securities for the purpose of this Agreement. The Collateral Agent shall remit any remaining funds, after application of principal payments received in respect of Series B Treasury Securities to purchase new Series B Treasury Securities, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent who shall remit such funds to the Holders of the related Stripped Common Equity Units on a pro rata basis. SECTION 3.04. Payments to Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver payments to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, to the extent it has received the same, to the account designated by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for such purpose not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary; provided, however, that if such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary on a day that is not a Business Day or after 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, then the Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the next succeeding Business Day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Securities Intermediary is required to deliver payments to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on a Business Day that is in the next calendar year, then the Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 am (New York City time) on the immediately preceding Business Day; provided that such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary on or before 9:00 am (New York City time) on that Business Day. 9
SECTION 3.05. Assets Not Properly Released. If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder shall receive any principal payments on account of financial assets credited to either Collateral Account and not released therefrom in accordance with this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or such Holder shall hold the same as trustee of an express trust for the benefit of the Company and, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate of the Company so directing, promptly deliver the same to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account or to the Company for application to the Obligations of the Holders, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and Holders shall acquire no right, title or interest in any such payments of principal amounts so received. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability under this Section 3.05 unless and until it has been notified in writing that such payment was delivered to it erroneously and shall have no liability for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken prior to its receipt of such notice. ARTICLE IV CONTROL SECTION 4.01. Establishment of Collateral Account. The Securities Intermediary hereby confirms that: (a) the Securities Intermediary has established the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account and its records identify the Collateral Agent as the sole person having a securities entitlement against the Securities Intermediary with respect to each such Collateral Account; (b) each of the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account is a securities account; (c) subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Securities Intermediary shall identify in its records the Collateral Agent as the entitlement Holder entitled to exercise the rights that comprise any financial asset credited to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account; (d) all property delivered to the Securities Intermediary pursuant to this Agreement or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, including any Permitted Investments, will be credited promptly to the applicable Collateral Account; and (e) all securities or other property underlying any financial assets credited to a Collateral Account shall be (i) registered in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and endorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank, (ii) registered in the name of the Securities Intermediary or (iii) credited to another securities account maintained in the name of the Securities Intermediary. In no case will any financial asset credited to a Collateral Account be registered in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or specially endorsed to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder unless such financial asset has been further endorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank. 10
SECTION 4.02. Treatment as Financial Assets. Each item of property (whether investment property, financial asset, security, instrument or cash) credited to a Collateral Account shall be treated as a financial asset. SECTION 4.03. Sole Control by Collateral Agent. Except as provided in Section 6.01, at all times prior to the termination of the Pledge, the Collateral Agent shall have sole control of each Collateral Account, and the Securities Intermediary shall take instructions and directions with respect to each Collateral Account solely from the Collateral Agent. If at any time the Securities Intermediary shall receive an entitlement order issued by the Collateral Agent and relating to a Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary shall comply with such entitlement order without further consent by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or any other Person. Except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement, until termination of the Pledge, the Securities Intermediary will not comply with any entitlement orders issued by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder. SECTION 4.04. Securities Intermediary's Location. The Series A Collateral Account, the Series B Collateral Account, and the rights and obligations of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders with respect thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York. Regardless of any provision in any other agreement, for purposes of the UCC, New York shall be deemed to be the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction. SECTION 4.05. No Other Claims. Except for the claims and interest of the Collateral Agent and of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders in the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary (without having conducted any investigation) does not know of any claim to, or interest in, the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account or in any financial asset credited thereto. If any Person asserts any lien, encumbrance or adverse claim (including any writ, garnishment, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process) against the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account or in any financial asset carried therein, the Securities Intermediary will promptly notify the Collateral Agent and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. SECTION 4.06. Investment and Release. All proceeds of financial assets from time to time deposited in the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account shall be invested and reinvested as provided in this Agreement. At no time prior to termination of the Pledge with respect to any particular property shall such property be released from the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account except in accordance with this Agreement or upon written instructions of the Collateral Agent. SECTION 4.07. Statements and Confirmations. 11
The Securities Intermediary will promptly send copies of all statements, confirmations and other correspondence concerning the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account and any financial assets credited thereto simultaneously to each of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company and the Collateral Agent at their addresses for notices under this Agreement. SECTION 4.08. Tax Allocations. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall perform all customary tax reporting with respect to all items of income, gain, expense and loss recognized in the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account, to the extent such reporting is required bylaw, to the Internal Revenue Service authorities in the manner required by law. None of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent or the Collateral Agent shall have any tax reporting duties hereunder. SECTION 4.09. No Other Agreements. The Securities Intermediary has not entered into, and prior to the termination of the Pledge will not enter into, any agreement with any other Person relating to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account or any financial assets credited thereto, including, without limitation, any agreement to comply with entitlement orders of any Person other than the Collateral Agent. SECTION 4.10. Powers Coupled with an Interest. The rights and powers granted in this Article IV to the Collateral Agent have been granted in order to perfect its security interests in the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account, are powers coupled with an interest and will be affected neither by the bankruptcy of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder nor by the lapse of time. The obligations of the Securities Intermediary under this Article IV shall continue in effect until the termination of the Pledge with respect to any and all Collateral. SECTION 4.11. Waiver of Lien; Waiver of Set-off. The Securities Intermediary waives any security interest, lien or right to make deductions or set- offs that it may now have or hereafter acquire in or with respect to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account, any financial asset credited thereto or any security entitlement in respect thereof. Neither the financial assets credited to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account nor the security entitlements in respect thereof will be subject to deduction, set-off, banker's lien or any other right in favor of any person other than the Company. ARTICLE V INITIAL DEPOSIT; CREATION OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNITS AND RECREATION OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNITS SECTION 5.01. Initial Deposit of Trust Preferred Securities. 12
(a) Prior to or concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of the initial Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units, shall Transfer to the Collateral Agent, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account, the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements relating thereto, and, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account, the Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements relating thereto and, the Securities Intermediary shall thereupon indicate by book-entry that such Trust Preferred Securities, regardless of whether received by the Securities Intermediary in the form of certified securities effectively indorsed in blank or as security entitlements, have been credited to the applicable Collateral Account. (b) The Securities Intermediary may, at any time or from time to time, cause any or all securities or other property underlying any financial assets credited to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account to be registered in the name of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent or their respective nominees; provided, however, that unless any Event of Default (defined in the Trust Agreement relating to the relevant series of Trust Preferred Securities) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Securities Intermediary agrees not to cause any Trust Preferred Securities to be so re-registered. SECTION 5.02. Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units. (a) A Holder of Normal Common Equity Units shall have the right, at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date, to create Stripped Common Equity Units by substitution of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities then comprising a part of all or a portion of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units, in integral multiples of 80 Normal Common Equity Units, by: (A) Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Collateral Account, Series A Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) to be released and Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has notified the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that such Holder has Transferred Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account, (B) stating the Value of the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral Agent instruct the Securities Intermediary to accept such Transfer of Treasury Securities and to release 13
from the Pledge to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact of the such Holder an equal Value of Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities that are then a component of such Normal Common Equity Units; and (B) delivering the related Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice, giving of instructions to the Securities Intermediary that such Transfer be accepted and confirmation that Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Series A Collateral Account (if applicable) and Series B Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, to release such Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. (b) Upon credit to the Series A Collateral Account (if applicable) of Series A Treasury Securities and to the Series B Collateral Account of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto delivered by a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units and receipt of the related instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary shall release the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge and shall promptly Transfer the same to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. SECTION 5.03. Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units. (a) At any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units shall have the right to recreate Normal Common Equity Units by substitution of Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury Securities in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units by: (A) Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account, Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the Value of the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities (if any) to be released, and Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account, Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the Value of the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, stating that such Holder has Transferred the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or 14
security entitlements with respect thereto to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Series A Collateral Account and has Transferred the Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Series B Collateral Account and requesting that the Collateral Agent instruct the Securities Intermediary accept such Transfer and to release from the Pledge to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Equal Value of the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities and Pledged Series B Treasury Securities related to such Stripped Common Equity Units; and (B) delivering the related Stripped Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice, the giving of instructions to the Securities Intermediary that such Transfer be accepted and confirmation that Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Series A Collateral Account and Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Series B Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto to release such Pledged Series A Treasury Securities and Pledged Series B Treasury Securities from the Pledge by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. (b) Upon credit to the Collateral Account of Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto delivered by a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units and receipt of the related instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary shall release such Pledged Treasury Securities from the Pledge and shall promptly Transfer the same to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. SECTION 5.04. Termination Event. (a) Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of written notice from the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that a Termination Event has occurred, the Collateral Agent shall release all Collateral from the Pledge and shall promptly instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer: (A) any Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto; (B) any Pledged Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto; and (C) any payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders for distribution to such Holders, in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. 15
(b) If such Termination Event shall result from the Company's becoming a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code, and if the Collateral Agent shall for any reason fail promptly to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged Treasury Securities and payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 and Proceeds of any of the foregoing, as the case may be, as provided by this Section 5.04, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall: (A) use its best efforts to obtain an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm to the effect that, notwithstanding the Company being the debtor in such a bankruptcy case, the Collateral Agent will not be prohibited from releasing or Transferring the Collateral as provided in this Section 5.04 and shall deliver or cause to be delivered such opinion to the Collateral Agent within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event, and if (A) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be unable to obtain such opinion within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event or (B) the Collateral Agent shall continue, after delivery of such opinion, to refuse to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged Treasury Securities and the payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof and Proceeds of any of the foregoing, as the case may be, as provided in this Section 5.04, then the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, upon receipt of instructions in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, within fifteen days after the occurrence of such Termination Event commence an action or proceeding in the court having jurisdiction of the Company's case under the Bankruptcy Code seeking an order requiring the Collateral Agent to effectuate the release and transfer of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged Treasury Securities and the payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof and Proceeds of any of the foregoing, or as the case may be, as provided by this Section 5.04; or (B) upon receipt of instructions in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, commence an action or proceeding like that described in Section 5.04(b)(i) hereof within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event. SECTION 5.05. Cash Settlement. (a) Upon (1) receipt by the Collateral Agent of a notice from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent promptly after the receipt by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of a notice from a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units that such Holder has elected, in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, to effect a Cash Settlement and (2) receipt from such Holder by the Securities Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date of the applicable Purchase Price in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashier's check or wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary, then the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary promptly to invest any such Cash in Permitted Investments maturing on the Stock Purchase Date. 16
The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the Permitted Investments in which any such Cash shall be invested; provided, however, that if the Company fails to deliver such written instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the day such Cash is received by the Collateral Agent or to be reinvested by the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to invest such Cash in the Permitted Investments described in clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments. The Collateral Agent may conclusively rely on any written direction and shall bear no liability for any loss or other damage based on acting or omitting to act under this Section 5.05 pursuant to any direction of the Company and in no event shall the Collateral Agent or Securities Intermediary be liable for the selection of Permitted Investments or for investment losses incurred thereon. The Collateral Agent and Securities Intermediary shall have no liability with respect to losses incurred as a result of the failure of the Company to provide written investment direction. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, upon receipt of Proceeds upon the maturity of the Permitted Investments on a Stock Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent shall (A) instruct the Securities Intermediary to pay the portion of such Proceeds and deliver any certified or cashier's checks received, in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price, to the Company on the Stock Purchase Date, and (B) release any amounts in excess of the Purchase Price earned from such Permitted Investments to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the Holders in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. (b) If a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units (i) fails to notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash Settlement as provided in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or (ii) does notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to pay the Purchase Price in cash, but fails to make such payment as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of such Holder's Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. (c) As soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent shall deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto, stating (i) the amount of Cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units and (ii) the amount of Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed in the applicable Remarketing pursuant to Section 5.02(a) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, of the series that is to be remarketed in the applicable Remarketing. (d) In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall (i) promptly return the Cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to Holders who elected to effect a Cash Settlement and (ii) as soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent a notice, stating (A) the amount of Cash that it has received and returned with respect to the Cash Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units and (B) the amount of Pledged Trust 17
Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Failed Remarketing in the Collateral Account. (e) In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall (i) instruct the Securities Intermediary to release from the Pledge such Holder's related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Successful Remarketing as to which such Holder has effected a Cash Settlement pursuant to Section 5.05(a), and (ii) instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Successful Remarketing to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. SECTION 5.06. Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement. Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of a notice from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that a Holder of Common Equity Units has elected to effect either (i) Early Settlement of its obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Common Equity Units in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and Section 5.07 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or (ii) Cash Merger Early Settlement of its obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Common Equity Units in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and Section 5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (which notice shall set forth the number of such Stock Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement), and that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Purchase Price pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, then the Collateral Agent shall release from the Pledge, (1) Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in the case of a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units or (2) Pledged Treasury Securities, in the case of a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units, in each case with a Value equal to the product of (x) the Stated Amount times (y) the number of Stock Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. A holder of Stripped Common Equity Units may settle early only in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units, and a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units may settle early only in integral multiples of 80 Normal Common Equity Units. SECTION 5.07. Application of Proceeds in Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. (a) If a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units has not elected to make an effective Cash Settlement by notifying the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in the manner provided for in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or does notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as provided in paragraph 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement of its intention to pay the Purchase Price in Cash, but fails to make such payment as required by paragraph 5.02(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase 18
Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to pay for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under such Stock Purchase Contracts from the Proceeds of the Remarketing of the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to the Remarketing Agent, upon confirmation of deposit by the Remarketing Agent of the Proceeds of such Successful Remarketing (less, to the extent permitted by the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Fee) in the Collateral Account. The Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to invest the Proceeds of the Successful Remarketing in Permitted Investments set forth in clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments. On the Stock Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to remit a portion of the Proceeds from such Successful Remarketing equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to satisfy in full such Holder's obligations to pay the Purchase Price to purchase the shares of Common Stock under the related Stock Purchase Contracts and to remit the balance of the Proceeds from the Successful Remarketing, if any, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder. In the event of a Final Failed Remarketing with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will, at the written instruction of the Company, deliver or dispose of the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with the Company's written instructions to satisfy in full, from any such disposition or retention, such Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Initial Stock Purchase Date under the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying such Normal Common Equity Units. Thereafter, the Collateral Agent shall promptly remit the Proceeds in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Initial Stock Purchase Date under such Stock Purchase Contracts to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units to which such Series A Trust Preferred Securities relate. In the event of a Final Failed Remarketing with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will, at the written instruction of the Company, deliver or dispose of the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with the Company's written instructions to satisfy in full, from any such disposition or retention, such Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date under the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying such Normal Common Equity Units. Thereafter, the Collateral Agent shall promptly remit the Proceeds in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date under such Stock Purchase Contracts to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units to which such Series B Trust Preferred Securities relate. (b) A Holder of a Stripped Common Equity Unit shall be deemed to have elected to pay for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the Stock Purchase Contract underlying the Stripped Common Equity Unit from the Proceeds of the related Pledged Treasury Securities. Without receiving any instruction from any Holder, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary (i) to remit the Proceeds of the 19
related Pledged Series A Treasury Securities to the Company in settlement of such Stock Purchase Contracts on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (ii) to remit the Proceeds of the related Pledged Series B Treasury Securities to the Company in settlement of such Stock Purchase Contracts on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. In the event the sum of the Proceeds from the related Pledged Treasury Securities exceeds the aggregate Purchase Price of the Stock Purchase Contracts being settled thereby, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to transfer such excess, when received, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to Holders. (c) On or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding an applicable Remarketing Date, but no earlier than the Payment Date immediately preceding such date, Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities of the series of Trust Preferred Securities that is the subject of a remarketing may elect to have their Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed under the Remarketing Agreement, by delivering their Separate Trust Preferred Securities along with a notice of such election, substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto, to the Collateral Agent, acting as Custodial Agent. Any such notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate for either series of Trust Preferred Securities is established in the Remarketing or any other condition. The Custodial Agent, shall hold Separate Trust Preferred Securities in an account separate from the applicable Collateral Account in which the Pledged Securities shall be held. Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities electing to have their Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed will also have the right to withdraw that election by written notice to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, upon which notice the Custodial Agent shall return such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to such Holder. After such time, such election shall become an irrevocable election to have such Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in such Remarketing. Promptly after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed and deliver to the Remarketing Agent for remarketing all Separate Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Custodial Agent pursuant to this Section 5.07(c) and not validly withdrawn prior to such date. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, after deducting the Remarketing Fee, the Remarketing Agent will remit to the Custodial Agent the remaining portion of the Proceeds of such Remarketing for payment to the Holders of the remarketed Separate Trust Preferred Securities, in accordance with their respective interests. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent will promptly return such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent for distribution to the appropriate Holders. ARTICLE VI VOTING RIGHTS -- PLEDGED TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES SECTION 6.01. Voting Rights. 20
Subject to the terms of Section 4.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may exercise, or refrain from exercising, any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or any part thereof for any purpose not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; provided that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall give the Company and the Collateral Agent at least five Business Days' prior written notice of the manner in which it intends to exercise, or its reasons for refraining from exercising, any such right. Upon receipt of any notices and other communications in respect of any Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, including notice of any meeting at which holders of the Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote or solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent shall use reasonable efforts to send promptly to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent such notice or communication, and as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of a written request therefore from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent such proxies and other instruments in respect of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities (in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent) as are prepared by the Company and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with respect to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities. ARTICLE VII RIGHTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 7.01. Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent. (a) In addition to the rights and remedies specified in Section 5.07 hereof or otherwise available at law or in equity, after an event of default (as specified in Section 7.01(b) below) hereunder, the Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights and remedies with respect to the Collateral of a secured party under the UCC (whether or not the UCC is in effect in the jurisdiction where the rights and remedies are asserted) and the Trades Regulations and such additional rights and remedies to which a secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in any jurisdiction where any rights and remedies hereunder may be asserted. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such remedies may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (1) retention of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or the Pledged Treasury Securities in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts and the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or (2) sale of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or the Pledged Treasury Securities in one or more public or private sales. (b) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, in the event the Company is unable to make payments from amounts transferred or transferable to the Company on account of the principal payments of any Pledged Treasury Securities as provided in Article III hereof, in satisfaction of the Obligations of the Holder of the Common Equity Units of which such applicable Pledged Treasury Securities are a part under the related Stock Purchase Contracts, the inability to make such payments shall constitute an event of default hereunder and the Collateral Agent shall have and may exercise, with reference to such Pledged Treasury Securities any and all of the rights and remedies available to a secured 21
party under the UCC and the Trades Regulations after default by a debtor, and as otherwise granted herein or under any other law. (c) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent is hereby irrevocably authorized to receive and collect all payments of (i) the liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities and (ii) the principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities, subject, in each case, to the provisions of Article III hereof, and as otherwise granted herein. (d) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact of the Holders, and each Holder of Common Equity Units agrees that, from time to time, upon the written request of the Collateral Agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, such Holder shall execute and deliver such further documents and do such other acts and things as the Company may reasonably request in order to maintain the Pledge, and the perfection and priority thereof, and to confirm the rights of the Collateral Agent hereunder. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability to any Holder for executing any documents or taking any such acts requested by the Collateral Agent hereunder, except for liability for its own negligent acts, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct. SECTION 7.02. Remarketing. The Collateral Agent shall, by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding an applicable Remarketing Date, notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the applicable series of Pledged Trust Preferred Securities that are to be remarketed and without any instruction from any Holder of Normal Common Equity Units, present the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the applicable series to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Trust Preferred Securities presented to the Remarketing Agent pursuant to this Section 7.02 for Remarketing shall be redeposited into the applicable Collateral Account. SECTION 7.03. Successful Remarketing. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall, at the written direction of the Company, instruct the Securities Intermediary to (i) Transfer the applicable Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to the Remarketing Agent upon confirmation of deposit by the Remarketing Agent of the Proceeds of such Successful Remarketing (after deducting any Remarketing Fee in accordance with the Remarketing Agreement) in the applicable Collateral Account, (ii) apply an amount equal to the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the related Stock Purchase Contracts on the applicable Stock Purchase Date in full satisfaction of such Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price under the related Stock Purchase Contracts, and (iii) promptly remit the remaining portion of such Proceeds to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units, in accordance with their respective interests and the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. With respect to Separate Trust Preferred Securities, any Proceeds of such Remarketing (after deducting any Remarketing Fee in accordance with the Remarketing Agreement) attributable to 22
the Separate Trust Preferred Securities will be remitted to the Custodial Agent for payment to the holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities. In the event of a Final Failed Remarketing, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities shall remain credited to the Collateral Account and Section 5.07 shall apply. SECTION 7.04. Substitutions. Whenever a Holder has the right to substitute Treasury Securities, Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements for any of them, as the case may be, for financial assets held in a Collateral Account, such substitution shall not constitute a novation of the security interest created hereby. ARTICLE VIII REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; COVENANTS SECTION 8.01. Representations and Warranties. Each Holder from time to time, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any representation or warranty made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby represents and warrants to the Collateral Agent (with respect to such Holder's interest in the Collateral), which representations and warranties shall be deemed repeated on each day a Holder Transfers Collateral, that: (a) such Holder has the power to grant a security interest in and lien on the Collateral; (b) such Holder is the sole beneficial owner of the Collateral and, in the case of Collateral delivered in physical form, is the sole holder of such Collateral and is the sole beneficial owner of, or has the right to Transfer, the Collateral it Transfers to the Collateral Agent for credit to an applicable Collateral Account, free and clear of any security interest, lien, encumbrance, call, liability to pay money or other restriction other than the security interest and lien granted under Article II hereof; (c) upon the Transfer of the Collateral to the Collateral Agent for credit to an applicable Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will have a valid and perfected first priority security interest therein (assuming that any central clearing operation or any securities intermediary or other entity not within the control of the Holder involved in the Transfer of the Collateral, including the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary, gives the notices and takes the action required of it hereunder and under applicable law for perfection of that interest and assuming the establishment and exercise of control pursuant to Article IV hereof); and (d) the execution and performance by the Holder of its obligations under this Agreement will not result in the creation of any security interest, lien or other encumbrance on the Collateral other than the security interest and lien granted under Article II hereof or violate any provision of any existing law or regulation applicable to it or of any mortgage, charge, 23
pledge, indenture, contract or undertaking to which it is a party or which is binding on it or any of its assets. SECTION 8.02. Covenants. The Holders from time to time, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any covenant made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby covenant to the Collateral Agent that for so long as the Collateral remains subject to the Pledge: (a) such Holders will not create or purport to create or allow to subsist any mortgage, charge, lien, pledge or any other security interest whatsoever over the Collateral or any part of it other than pursuant to this Agreement; and (b) such Holders will not sell or otherwise dispose (or attempt to dispose) of the Collateral or any part of it except for the beneficial interest therein, subject to the Pledge hereunder, transferred in connection with the Transfer of the Common Equity Units. ARTICLE IX THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE CUSTODIAL AGENT AND THE SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY It is hereby agreed as follows: SECTION 9.01. Appointment, Powers and Immunities. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall act as agent for the Company hereunder with such powers as are specifically vested in the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, by the terms of this Agreement. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary shall: (a) have no duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in this Agreement and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, liabilities or obligations shall be inferred from this Agreement against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary, nor shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary be bound by the provisions of any agreement by any party hereto beyond the specific terms hereof and none of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any fiduciary relationship to the Holders of the Common Equity Units or any other Person; (b) not be responsible for any recitals contained in this Agreement, or in any certificate or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by it under, this Agreement, the Common Equity Units or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement (other than as against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be), the Common Equity Units, any Collateral or 24
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or for any failure by the Company or any other Person (except the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be) to perform any of its obligations hereunder or thereunder or for the validity, perfection, enforceability, priority or, except as expressly required hereby, maintenance of any security interest created hereunder; (c) not be required to initiate or conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder (except pursuant to directions furnished under Section 9.02 hereof, subject to Section 9.08 hereof); (d) not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it hereunder or under any other document or instrument referred to or provided for herein or in connection herewith or therewith, except for its own negligence or willful misconduct; and (e) not be required to advise any party as to selling or retaining, or taking or refraining from taking any action with respect to, any securities or other property deposited hereunder. Subject to the foregoing, during the term of this Agreement, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall take all reasonable action in connection with the safekeeping and preservation of the Collateral hereunder as determined by industry standards. The Collateral Agent, Securities Intermediary and Custodial Agent shall only be responsible for transferring money, securities or other property in accordance with the terms herein to the extent that such money, securities or other property is credited to the respective Collateral Account. No provision of this Agreement shall require the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or the exercise of any of its rights or powers hereunder. In no event shall the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary be liable for any amount in excess of the Value of the Collateral. SECTION 9.02. Instructions of the Company. The Company shall have the right, by one or more written instruments executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent, to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for the realization of any right or remedy available to the Collateral Agent, or of exercising any power conferred on the Collateral Agent, or to direct the taking or refraining from taking of any action authorized by this Agreement; provided, however, that (i) such direction shall not conflict with the provisions of any law or of this Agreement or involve the Collateral Agent in personal liability and (ii) the Collateral Agent shall be indemnified to its satisfaction as provided herein. None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has any obligation or responsibility to file any UCC financing or continuation 25
statements or to take any other actions to create, preserve or maintain the security interest in the Collateral except as expressly set forth herein. SECTION 9.03. Reliance by Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled, in the absence of bad faith, to rely conclusively upon any certification, order, judgment, opinion, notice or other written communication (including, without limitation, any thereof by e-mail or similar electronic means, telecopy, telex or facsimile) believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by or on behalf of the proper Person or Persons (without being required to determine the correctness of any fact stated therein) and consult with and conclusively rely upon advice, opinions and statements of legal counsel and other experts selected by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder in accordance with instructions given by the Company in accordance with this Agreement. In the event any instructions are given (other than in writing at the time of the execution of this Agreement), whether in writing, by telecopier or otherwise, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary are authorized to seek confirmation of such instructions by telephone call-back to the person or persons designated on Schedule I hereto, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may rely upon the confirmations of anyone purporting to be the person or persons so designated. The persons and telephone numbers for call-backs may be changed only in writing actually received and acknowledged by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. It is understood that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary in any funds transfer may rely solely upon any account numbers or similar identifying number provided by the Company to identify (i) the beneficiary, (ii) the beneficiary's bank, or (iii) an intermediary bank. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may apply any of the deposited funds for any payment order it executes using any such identifying number, even where its use may result in a Person other than the beneficiary being paid, or the transfer of funds to a bank other than the beneficiary's bank, or an intermediary bank, designated by the Company; provided, however, that payment is made to the account as specified by the Company. In each case that the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may or is required hereunder to take any action, including without limitation to make any determination or judgment, to give consents, to exercise rights, powers or remedies, to release or sell Collateral or otherwise to act hereunder, the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may seek direction from the Company. The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction from the Company. Unless direction is otherwise expressly provided herein, if the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall request direction from the Company with respect to any action, the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refrain from such 26
action unless and until such agent shall have received direction from the Company, and the agent shall not incur liability to any Person by reason of so refraining. SECTION 9.04. Certain Rights. (a) Whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Agreement the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior totaling or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by one of the Company's officers, and delivered to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, shall be full warrant to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof. (b) The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, entitlement order, approval or other paper or document. SECTION 9.05. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be the successor of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper with any party hereto or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto except where an instrument of transfer or assignment is required by law to effect such succession, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. SECTION 9.06. Rights in Other Capacities. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary and their affiliates may (without having to account therefore to the Company) accept deposits from, lend money to, make their investments in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust or other business with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, any other Person interested herein and any Holder of Common Equity Units (and any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) as if it were not acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and 27
their affiliates may accept fees and other consideration from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and any Holder of Common Equity Units without having to account for the same to the Company; provided that each of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent and the Collateral Agent covenants and agrees with the Company that it shall not accept, receive or permit there to be created in favor of itself and shall take no affirmative action to permit there to be created in favor of any other Person, any security interest, lien or other encumbrance of any kind in or upon the Collateral other than the lien created by the Pledge. SECTION 9.07. Non-reliance on Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. None of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent or the Collateral Agent shall be required to keep itself informed as to the performance or observance by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the Common Equity Units or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or to inspect the properties or books of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units. None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any duty or responsibility to provide the Company with any credit or other information concerning the affairs, financial condition or business of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units (or any of their respective affiliates) that may come into the possession of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective affiliates. SECTION 9.08. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company agrees to: (a) pay the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, for all services rendered by them hereunder; (b) indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and each of their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, the "Indemnitees"), from and against any and all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, fines, penalties and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) and taxes (other than those based upon, determined by or measured by the income of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary) (collectively, "Losses" and individually, a "Loss") that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them for following any instructions or other directions upon which either the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary is entitled to rely pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, provided that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct with respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought; and 28
(c) in addition to and not in limitation of paragraph (b)immediately above, indemnify and hold the Indemnitees and each of them harmless from and against any and all Losses that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them in connection with or arising out of the Collateral Agent's, the Custodial Agent's or the Securities Intermediary's acceptance or performance of its powers and duties under this Agreement, provided that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct with respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought. The provisions of this Section and Section 11.07 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary and the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 9.09. Failure to Act. In the event of any ambiguity in the provisions of this Agreement or any dispute between or conflicting claims by or among the parties hereto or any other Person with respect to any funds or property deposited hereunder, then at its sole option, each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled, after prompt notice to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to refuse to comply with any and all claims, demands or instructions with respect to such property or funds so long as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall not be or become liable in any way to any of the parties hereto for its failure or refusal to comply with such conflicting claims, demands or instructions. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refuse to act until either: (a) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or settled by agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing satisfactory to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary; or (b) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to it sufficient to save it harmless from and against any and all loss, liability or reasonable out-of-pocket expense which it may incur by reason of its acting. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, none of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be required to take any action that is contrary to law or to the terms of this Agreement, or which would in its opinion subject it or any of its officers, employees or directors to liability. SECTION 9.10. Resignation of Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary as provided below: 29
(A) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Common Equity Units; (B) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may be removed at any time by the Company; and (C) if the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary fails to perform any of its material obligations hereunder in any material respect for a period of not less than 20 days after receiving written notice of such failure by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and such failure shall be continuing, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may be removed by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, acting at the direction of the Holders of a majority in number of the Common Equity Units. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly notify the Company of any removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary pursuant to clause (iii) of this Section 9.10. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Company shall have the right to appoint a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be. If no successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's giving of notice of resignation or the Company's or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's giving notice of such removal, then the retiring or removed Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may petition any court of competent jurisdiction, at the expense of the Company, for the appointment of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall each be a bank, trust company or national banking association with a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, such successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall take all appropriate action, subject to payment of any amounts then due and payable to it hereunder, to transfer any money and property held by it hereunder (including the Collateral) to such successor. The retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall, upon such succession, be discharged from its duties and obligations as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder. After any retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's resignation hereunder as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, the provisions of this Article IX shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary. Any resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder, at a time when such Person is acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as the 30
simultaneous resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Securities Intermediary or Custodial Agent, as the case may be. SECTION 9.11. Right to Appoint Agent or Advisor. The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary each shall have the right to appoint agents or advisors in connection with any of their respective duties hereunder, and the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by, or in reliance upon the advice of, such agents or advisors selected in good faith. The appointment of agents pursuant to Section 9.11 shall be subject to prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. SECTION 9.12. Survival. The provisions of this Article IX shall survive termination of this Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary. SECTION 9.13. Exculpation. Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or their officers, directors, employees or agents be liable under this Agreement to any third party for indirect, special, punitive, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including, but not limited to, lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, or any of them incurred without any act or deed that is found to be attributable to negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary. ARTICLE X AMENDMENT SECTION 10.01. Amendment Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when duly authorized by a Board Resolution, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and from time to time, may amend this Agreement, in form satisfactory to the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to: (a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company; 31
(b) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent, Securities Intermediary or Stock Purchase Contract Agent; (c) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company, provided that such covenants or such surrender do not adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of the Pledge created hereunder; (d) cure any ambiguity (or formal defect) or correct or supplement any provisions herein which may be inconsistent with another such provisions herein; or (e) make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions arising under this Agreement, provided that such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect. SECTION 10.02. Amendment with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in number of the Common Equity Units at the time Outstanding, including without limitation the consent of the Holders obtained in connection with a tender or an exchange offer, by Act of such Holders delivered to the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent, as the case may be, the Company, when duly authorized by a Board Resolution, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent may amend this Agreement for the purpose of modifying in any manner the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of the Holders in respect of the Common Equity Units; provided, however, that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the unanimous consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit: (a) change the amount or type of Collateral underlying a Common Equity Unit (except for the rights of Holders of Normal Common Equity Units to substitute the Treasury Securities for the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or the rights of Holders of Stripped Common Equity Units to substitute Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, for the Pledged Treasury Securities), impair the right of the Holder of any Common Equity Unit to receive distributions on the underlying Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral; or (b) otherwise effect any action that would require the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit affected thereby pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement if such action were effected by a modification or amendment of the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; or (c) reduce the percentage of Common Equity Units the consent of whose Holders is required for the modification or amendment of the provisions of this Agreement; provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely affect only the Normal Common Equity Units or only the Stripped Common Equity Units, then only the 32
affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of Holders of not less than a majority of such class; provided further that the unanimous consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit of such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal specified in clauses (a) through (c) above. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. SECTION 10.03. Execution of Amendments. In executing any amendment permitted by this Article, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent) shall be fully authorized and protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an officers' certificate stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that all conditions precedent, if any, to the execution and delivery of such amendment have been satisfied. The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent, Securities Intermediary and Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such amendment which affects their own respective rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or otherwise. SECTION 10.04. Effect of Amendments. Upon the execution of any amendment under this Article, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such amendment shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement shall be bound thereby. SECTION 10.05. Reference of Amendments. Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered after the execution of any amendment pursuant to this Section may, and shall if required by the Collateral Agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, bear a notation as to any matter provided for in such amendment. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, to any such amendment may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement in exchange for Certificates representing Outstanding Common Equity Units. ARTICLE XI MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 11.01. No Waiver. 33
No failure on the part of the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law. SECTION 11.02. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact, hereby submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York state court sitting in New York City for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact, irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection that they may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. SECTION 11.03. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications provided for herein (including, without limitation, any modifications of, or waivers or consents under, this Agreement) shall be given or made in writing (including, without limitation, by telecopy) delivered to the intended recipient at the "Address For Notices" specified below its name on the signature pages hereof or, as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all such communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when transmitted by telecopy or personally delivered or, in the case of a mailed notice, upon receipt, in each case given or addressed as aforesaid. SECTION 11.04. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units, by their acceptance of the same, shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the provisions hereof and to have ratified the agreements of, and the grant of the Pledge hereunder by, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. SECTION 11.05. Counterparts. 34
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. SECTION 11.06. Severability. If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as may be possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 11.07. Expenses, Etc. The Company agrees to reimburse the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary for: (a) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary), in connection with (i) the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery or performance of this Agreement and (ii) any modification, supplement or waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement; (b) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) in connection with (i) any enforcement or proceedings resulting or incurred in connection with causing any Holder of Common Equity Units to satisfy its obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Common Equity Units and (ii) the enforcement of this Section 11.07; (c) all transfer, stamp, documentary or other similar taxes, assessments or charges levied by any governmental or revenue authority in respect of this Agreement or any other document referred to herein and all costs, expenses, taxes, assessments and other charges incurred in connection with any filing, registration, recording or perfection of any security interest contemplated hereby; (d) all reasonable fees and expenses of any agent or advisor appointed by the Collateral Agent and consented to by the Company under Section 9.11 of this Agreement; and (e) any other out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary in connection with the performance of their duties and the exercise of their powers hereunder. SECTION 11.08. Security Interest Absolute. 35
All rights of the Collateral Agent and security interests hereunder, and all obligations of the Holders from time to time hereunder, shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of: (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any provision of the Stock Purchase Contracts or the Common Equity Units or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or any other term of, or any increase in the amount of, all or any of the obligations of Holders of the Common Equity Units under the related Stock Purchase Contracts, or any other amendment or waiver of any term of, or any consent to any departure from any requirement of, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or any Stock Purchase Contract or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; or (c) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or discharge of, a borrower, a guarantor or a pledgor. SECTION 11.09. Notice of Termination Event. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. Upon the written request of the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary, the Company shall inform such party whether or not a Termination Event has occurred. SECTION 11.10. Incorporation by Reference. In connection with its execution and performance hereunder the Stock Purchase Contract Agent is entitled to all rights, privileges, protections, immunities, benefits and indemnities provided to it under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. [SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE] 36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC. J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in- fact of the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------- Name: Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Title: Authorized Signer Address for Notices: Address for Notices: MetLife, Inc. Worldwide Securities Services 27-01 Queens Plaza North 4 New York Plaza Long Island City, New York 11101 15th Floor Facsimile: (212) 578-0266 New York, New York 10004 Attention: Treasurer Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary By: /s/ L. O'Brien ----------------------------- Name: L. O'Brien Title: Vice President Address for Notices Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza 15th Floor New York, New York 10004 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services 37
EXHIBIT A INSTRUCTION FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: ____________Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY") The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge Agreement that: [Include only if Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to substitute $ ___________ Value of Series A Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities relating to Normal Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account.] the Holder has elected to substitute $ Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities relating to Normal Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Treasury Securities or security A-1
entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account. We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary: (A) [Include only if Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date Upon confirmation that such Series A Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto have been credited to the Series A Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned, on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such Holder, an equal Value of Series A Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge Agreement.] Upon confirmation that such Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto have been credited to the Series B Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned, on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such Holder, an equal Value of Series B Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge Agreement. Date:________________________ J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units By:_________________________________________ Name: Title: A-2
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities: ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ A-3
EXHIBIT B INSTRUCTION FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Securities Intermediary Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: ____________ Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY") The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Pledge Agreement. [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date When you have confirmed that (i) $ Value of Series A Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series A Collateral Account by or for the benefit of , as Holder of Normal Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER") and (ii) $ Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or for the benefit of the Holder, you are hereby instructed to release from the Series A Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto and to release from the Series B Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, relating to Normal Common Equity Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such Holder.] B-1
[If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: When you have confirmed that $ Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or for the benefit of , as Holder of Normal Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER"), you are hereby instructed to release to the undersigned, from the Series B Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, relating to Normal Common Equity Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such Holder.] Dated: ______________________ JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent By:________________________________________ Name: Title: B-2
Please print name and address of Holder: ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ B-3
EXHIBIT C INSTRUCTION FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Securities Intermediary Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: _________ Stripped Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY") The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary, as Custodial Agent and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Stripped Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date: We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement that the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to substitute (i) $ Value of Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series A Treasury Securities with respect to Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account; and (ii) $ Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series B Treasury Securities with respect to Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account; C-1
[If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement that the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to substitute $ Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series B Treasury Securities with respect to Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account.] We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary, upon confirmation that such Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned, on behalf of such Holder for distribution to such Holder, an equal Value of Series A Treasury Securities and an equal Value of Series B Treasury Securities in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement. Dated: ______________________ J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent By:________________________________________ Name: Title: C-2
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury Securities: ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ C-3
EXHIBIT D INSTRUCTION FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Securities Intermediary Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: __________ Stripped Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY") The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Securities Intermediary, Custodial Agent and Collateral Agent and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Pledge Agreement. [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date: When you have confirmed that (i) $ Value of Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Series A Collateral Account by or for the benefit of , as Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER") and (ii) $ Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or for the benefit of Holder you are hereby instructed to release from the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account an equal Value of Series A Treasury Securities, Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto relating to Stripped Common Equity Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of such Holder for distribution to such Holder.] [If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: When you have confirmed that $ Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements D-1
with respect thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or for the benefit of , as Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER"), you are hereby instructed to release from the Series B Collateral Account an equal Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto relating to Stripped Common Equity Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of such Holder for distribution to such Holder.] Dated: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent By: By:________________________________________ Name: Title: D-2
Please print name and address of Holder: ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ D-3
EXHIBIT E NOTICE OF CASH SETTLEMENT FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT (Cash Settlement Amounts) J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: _________ Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY") _________ Stripped Common Equity Units of the Company Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), by and among you, the Company, and the undersigned, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein. In accordance with Section 5.05(c) of the Pledge Agreement, we hereby notify you that as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding { } (the "[INITIAL][SUBSEQUENT] STOCK PURCHASE DATE"), we have received (i) $___________ in immediately available funds paid with respect to the Cash Settlement of ___________ Normal Common Equity Units, and (ii) based on the funds received set forth in clause (i) above, an aggregate liquidation amount of $___________ of Pledged [Series A][Series B] Trust Preferred Securities are to be tendered for purchase in the Remarketing. Dated: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent By:_________________________________________ Name: Title: E-1
EXHIBIT F INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING REMARKETING JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association The Custodial Agent Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: Trust Preferred Securities of [MetLife Capital Trust II][MetLife Capital Trust III] The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"), you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to deliver $__________ aggregate liquidation amount of Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities for delivery to the Remarketing Agent on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request of the Remarketing Agent, execute and deliver any additional documents deemed by the Remarketing Agent or by the Company to be necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered hereby. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you, upon receipt of the Proceeds of such remarketing from the Remarketing Agent, to deliver such Proceeds to the undersigned in accordance with the instructions indicated herein under "A. Payment Instructions." The undersigned hereby instructs you, in the event of a Failed Remarketing, upon receipt of the Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered herewith from the Remarketing Agent, to deliver such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities to the person(s) and the address(es) indicated herein under "B. Delivery Instructions." With this notice, the undersigned hereby (i) represents and warrants that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered hereby and that the undersigned is the record owner of any [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered herewith in physical form or a participant in The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") and the beneficial owner of any [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered herewith by book-entry transfer to your account at DTC, (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement and (iii) acknowledges and agrees that after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Remarketing Date, such election shall become an irrevocable election to have such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred F-1
Securities remarketed in the Remarketing. In the case of a Failed Remarketing, such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities shall be returned to the undersigned. Dated: ________________________________ By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Signature Guarantee: ___________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ F-2
A. PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS Proceeds of the remarketing should be paid by check in the name of the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below. Name (s) (Please Print) Address (Please Print) (Zip Code) (Taxpayer Identification or Social Security Number) B. DELIVERY INSTRUCTIONS In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities that are in physical form should be delivered to the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below. Name (s) (Please Print) Address (Please Print) (Zip Code) (Tax Identification or Social Security Number) In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities that are in book-entry form should be credited to the account at The Depository Trust Company set forth below. ___________________________ DTC Account Number Name of Account Party: ____________________________ F-3
EXHIBIT G INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING WITHDRAWAL FROM REMARKETING JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association The Custodial Agent Facsimile: (212) 623-5216 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Re: Trust Preferred Securities of [MetLife Capital Trust II][MetLife Capital Trust III] The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among MetLife, Inc. and you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to withdraw the $__________ aggregate liquidation amount of Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Custodial Agent on _________ 200_ for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you to return such [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities to the undersigned in accordance with the undersigned's instructions. With this notice, the Undersigned hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. Dated: ________________________________ By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Signature Guarantee: ___________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ___________________________________ Address ___________________________________ ___________________________________ G-1
SCHEDULE I Contact Persons for Confirmation NAME PHONE NUMBER ---- ------------ 1

EXHIBIT 4.5 ================================================================================ METLIFE, INC., Issuer and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, Trustee INDENTURE Dated as of June 21, 2005 Subordinated Debt Securities ================================================================================
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE(1) - ---------------------- (1) This Cross-Reference Table does not constitute part of the Indenture and shall not have any bearing on the interpretation of any of its terms or provisions.
TABLE OF CONTENTS(1) - --------------- (1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its terms or provisions. -i-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) -ii-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) -iii-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) -iv-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) -v-
INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"): WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of unsecured subordinated debt securities, debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter referred to as the "Securities"), in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series, as provided in this Indenture, including, without limitation, Securities to be issued and sold from time to time to one or more MetLife Trusts (as defined herein); WHEREAS, to provide the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are to be authenticated, issued and delivered, the Company has duly authorized the execution of this Indenture; and WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Securities: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01 Definitions of Terms. The terms defined in this Section (except as in this Indenture otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section and shall include the plural as well as the singular. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or that are by reference in such Act defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this instrument. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person, directly or indirectly, controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. When used with respect to any Person, "control" means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" and "under common control with" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Authenticating Agent" means an authenticating agent with respect to all or any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.10.
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law for the relief of debtors. "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such Board. "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification. "Business Day" means, with respect to any series of Securities, any day other than a day on which federal or state banking institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close. "Certificate" means a certificate signed by the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company. The Certificate need not comply with the provisions of Section 14.07. "Company" means MetLife, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and, subject to the provisions of Article Ten, shall also include its successors and assigns. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the"Exchange Act"), or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Common Securities" means undivided beneficial interests in the assets of a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Preferred Securities issued by such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities. "Common Securities Guarantee" means any guarantee agreement executed by the Company with respect to the Common Securities issued by a MetLife Trust pursuant to which the Company agrees to pay the guarantee payments under any such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Common Securities. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10004. "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, sequestrator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. 2
"Declaration," with respect to a MetLife Trust, means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of such MetLife Trust. "Default" means any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default. "Deferral Period," with respect to any series of Securities, means any period during which the Company elects to extend the interest payment period on such series of Securities pursuant to Section 4.01(b); provided that a Deferral Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the Stated Maturity or the Redemption Date of any Security of such series and must end on an Interest Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an Interest Payment Date or the Redemption Date for such Securities. "Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series, for which the Company shall determine that such Securities will be issued as a Global Security, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to either Section 2.01 or Section 2.11. "Event of Default" means, with respect to Securities of a particular series any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, therein designated. "Global Security" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security executed by the Company and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. "Governmental Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt. "herein,""hereof" and"hereunder," and other words of similar import, refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Indebtedness" of any person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of this Indenture or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) 3
any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purposes of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of, or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments, (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within 90 days from the date on which such indebtedness was created), and (iii) any obligations of such Person as lessee under leases required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee under generally accepted accounting principles and leases of property or assets made as part of any sale and lease-back transaction to which such Person is a party. "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 2.01. "Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on a Security of a particular series. "Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "MetLife Trust" means each of MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III (together, the "Trusts"), each a statutory business trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any other similar trust created for the purpose of issuing preferred securities in connection with the issuance of Securities under this Indenture. "MLIC" means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, an insurance company duly organized and existing under the insurance laws of the State of New York or any Person successor thereto. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chief Financial Officer, President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Controller or an Assistant Controller or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof. "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall 4
include the statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof. "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01(b). "Outstanding," when used with reference to Securities of any series, means, subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, as of any particular time, all Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except (a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or delivered to the Trustee or any Paying Agent for cancellation or that have previously been canceled; (b) Securities or portions thereof for the payment or redemption of which moneys or Governmental Obligations in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent); provided, however, that if such Securities or portions of such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as in Article Three provided, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; (c) Securities in lieu of or in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07; and (d) Securities as to which Defeasance (as defined in Section 13.02) has been effected pursuant to Section 13.02, provided, however, that in determining whether the holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 6.01(b), (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 2.01, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 2.01, of the principal amount of such Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities beneficially owned by the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor. "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company. 5
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint-venture, joint-stock company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 2.01. "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security. "Preferred Securities" means undivided beneficial interests in the assets of a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Common Securities issued by such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities. "Preferred Securities Guarantee" means any guarantee agreement executed by the Company with respect to the Preferred Securities issued by a MetLife Trust pursuant to which the Company agrees to pay the guarantee payments under any such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Preferred Securities. "Property Trustee" has the meaning set forth in the Declaration of the applicable MetLife Trust. "Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture. "Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. "Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice-President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, any trust officer, any corporate trust officer or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Securities" has the meaning stated in the preamble of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. 6
"Securityholder," "holder of Securities," "registered holder," or other similar term, means the Person or Persons in whose name or names a particular Security shall be registered on the books of the Company kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. "Senior Indebtedness" means with respect to the Company, all amounts due on obligations in connection with any of the following, whether Outstanding at the date of execution of this Indenture, or thereafter incurred or created, (i) the principal of or any premium and interest in respect of (A) indebtedness of the Company for money borrowed and (B) indebtedness evidenced by securities, debentures, bonds or other similar instruments issued by the Company (other than the Securities); (ii) all capital lease obligations of the Company; all obligations of the Company issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property, all conditional sale obligations of the Company and all obligations of the Company under any title retention agreement (but excluding trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business); (iv) all obligations of the Company for the reimbursement on any letter of credit, banker's acceptance, security purchase facility or similar credit transaction; (v) all obligations of the Company in respect of interest rate swap, cap or other agreements, interest rate future or options contracts, currency swap arrangements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements; (vi) all obligations of the types referred to in clauses (i) through (v) above of other persons for the payment of which the Company is responsible or liable as obligor, guarantor or otherwise; and (vii) all obligations of the types referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above of other persons secured by any lien on any property or asset of the Company (whether or not such obligation is assumed by the Company); provided, that, "Senior Indebtedness" shall not include: (1) indebtedness or monetary obligations to trade creditors created or assumed by the Company in the ordinary course of business in connection with the obtaining of materials or services; indebtedness that is by its terms subordinated to or ranks equal with the Securities; or (3) any indebtedness of the Company to its Affiliates (including all debt securities and guarantees in respect of those debt securities, issued to (a) any MetLife Trust or (b) any other trust, partnership or other entity affiliated with the Company that is a financing vehicle of the Company (a" financing entity") in connection with the issuance by such financing entity of preferred securities or other securities guaranteed by the Company) unless otherwise expressly provided in the terms of any such indebtedness. "Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation at least a majority of whose outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time be owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any general partnership, joint venture or similar entity, at least a majority of whose outstanding partnership or similar interests shall at the time be owned by such Person, or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries and (iii) any limited partnership of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries is a general partner. "Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven, shall also include its successors and assigns and, if at any time there is more than one Person acting in such capacity hereunder, "Trustee" shall mean each such 7
Person. The term "Trustee" as used with respect to a particular series of the Securities shall mean the trustee with respect to that series. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, subject to the provisions of Sections 9.01, 9.02, and 10.01, as in effect at the date of execution of this instrument. "Trust Securities" means, collectively, Common Securities and Preferred Securities of a MetLife Trust. "Voting Stock," as applied to stock of any Person, means shares, interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares, interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency. "Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity on a series of securities calculated at the time of issuance of such series or, if applicable, of the most recent redetermination of interest on such series, and calculated in accordance with accepted financial practice. ARTICLE II DESCRIPTION, TERMS, EXECUTION, REGISTRATION AND EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES Section 2.01 Designation and Terms of Securities. (a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series up to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series from time to time authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company or pursuant to one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto: (1) the title of the Security of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities); (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of that series); (3) the price or prices at which the Company will sell the Securities; (4) the Stated Maturity of the Securities; 8
(5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest or the manner of calculation of such rate or rates, if any; (6) the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable or the manner of determination of such Interest Payment Dates and the record date for the determination of holders to whom interest is payable on any such Interest Payment Dates; (7) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods and the duration of any such Deferral Period, including the maximum consecutive period during which interest payment periods may be extended; (8) if the amount of principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any index, formula, or other method, such as one or more currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices, and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined; (9) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable; (10) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company; (11) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions (including payments made in cash in participation of future sinking fund obligations) or at the option of a holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation; (12) if other than denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the series shall be issuable; (13) if other than the full principal amount thereof, the portion or, methods of determining the portion, of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01; (14) if other than the currency of the United States of America, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for any purpose, including for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 1.01; (15) provisions granting special rights to holders of the Securities upon the occurrence of specific events; 9
(16) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or the Company's covenants provided for with respect to the Securities of the series; (17) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall be defeasible pursuant to Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 or both such Sections and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced; (18) whether the subordination provisions contained in Article XV or different subordination provisions will apply to the Securities. (19) whether the Securities will be convertible into shares of common stock or other securities or property of the Company and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible, including the conversion price and the conversion period; (20) whether the Securities are issuable as a Global Security and, in such case, the identity for the Depositary for such series and the terms and conditions upon which Global Securities may be exchanged for certificated debt securities; (21) any special tax implications of the Securities of the series, including any provisions for Original Issue Discount Securities, if offered; (22) any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 6.01; (23) any trustees, authenticating or Paying Agents, transfer agents or registrars or other agents with respect to the Securities; and (24) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 9.01(11)), but which may modify or delete any provision of this Indenture with respect to such series, provided that no such term may modify or delete any provision hereof if imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, and provided, further that any modification or deletion of the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee hereunder shall have been consented to in writing by the Trustee). All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to any such Board Resolution or in any indentures supplemental hereto. If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate of the Company setting forth the terms of the series. 10
Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, with different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, with different dates on which such interest may be payable and with different redemption dates. Section 2.02 Form of Securities and Trustee's Certificate. The Securities of any series and the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by such Securities shall be substantially of the tenor and purport as set forth in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or as provided in a Board Resolution of the Company and as set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which Securities of that series may be listed, or to conform to usage. Section 2.03 Denominations; Provisions for Payment. The Securities shall be issuable as registered Securities and in the denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, subject to Section 2.01(11). The Securities of a particular series shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified with respect to that series. Unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, the principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, as well as any premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of that series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest installment. In the event that any Security of a particular series or portion thereof is called for redemption and the redemption date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Security will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Security as provided in Section 3.03. Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of the same series (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holder on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such holder; and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in clause (1) or clause (2) below: 11
(1) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall not be more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register (as hereinafter defined), not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such special record date and shall be no longer payable pursuant to the following clause (2). (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. Unless otherwise set forth in a Board Resolution of the Company or one or more indentures supplemental hereto establishing the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof, the term "regular record date" as used in this Section with respect to a series of Securities with respect to any Interest Payment Date for such series shall mean either the fifteenth day of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a month, or the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a month, whether or not such date is a Business Day. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security of a series delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security of such series shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security. 12
Section 2.04 Execution and Authentications. The Securities shall be signed on behalf of the Company by its President, or one of its Vice Presidents, or its Treasurer, or one of its Assistant Treasurers, or its Secretary, or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Signatures may be in the form of a manual or facsimile signature. The Company may use the facsimile signature of any Person who shall have been a President or Vice President thereof, or of any Person who shall have been a Secretary or Assistant Secretary thereof, notwithstanding the fact that at the time the Securities shall be authenticated and delivered or disposed of such Person shall have ceased to be the President or a Vice President, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication by the Trustee. A Security shall not be valid until authenticated manually by an authorized signatory of the Trustee, or by an Authenticating Agent. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, signed by its President or any Vice President and its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, and the Trustee in accordance with such written order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the form and terms thereof have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture. The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner that is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Section 2.05 Registration of Transfer and Exchange. (a) Securities of any series may be exchanged upon presentation thereof at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, for other Securities of such series of authorized denominations, and for a like aggregate principal amount, upon payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto, all as provided in this Section. In respect of any Securities so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange therefor the Security or Securities of the same series that the Securityholder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive, bearing numbers not contemporaneously outstanding. 13
(b) The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, or such other location designated by the Company a register or registers (herein referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Securities and the transfers of Securities as in this Article provided and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee. The registrar for the purpose of registering Securities and transfer of Securities as herein provided shall be appointed as authorized by Board Resolution (the "Security Registrar"). Upon surrender for transfer of any Security at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose, the Company shall execute, the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of the same series as the Security presented for a like aggregate principal amount. All Securities presented or surrendered for exchange or registration of transfer, as provided in this Section, shall be accompanied (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) by a written instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security Registrar, duly executed by the registered holder or by such holder's duly authorized attorney in writing. (c) No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, or issue of new Securities in case of partial redemption of any series, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 2.06, the second paragraph of Section 3.03 and Section 9.04 not involving any transfer. (d) The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, exchange or register the transfer of any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all the Outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, nor (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of any series or portions thereof called for redemption. The provisions of this Section 2.05 are, with respect to any Global Security, subject to Section 2.11 hereof. Section 2.06 Temporary Securities. Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities (printed, lithographed or typewritten) of any authorized denomination. Such temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Company. Every temporary Security of any series shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities of such series. Without unnecessary delay the Company will execute and will furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon any or all temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor (without charge to the holders), at the office or agency of the Company designated for 14
the purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, and the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of such series, unless the Company advises the Trustee to the effect that definitive Securities need not be executed and furnished until further notice from the Company. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of such series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder. Section 2.07 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities. In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company (subject to the next succeeding sentence) shall execute, and upon the Company's request the Trustee (subject as aforesaid) shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of the applicant's Security and of the ownership thereof. The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any officer of the Company. Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. In case any Security that has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substitute Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as they may require to save them harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof. Every replacement Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, or be enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities, and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender. Section 2.08 Cancellation. All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the Company or any Paying Agent, be delivered to 15
the Trustee for cancellation, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be canceled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly required or permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. On request of the Company at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company canceled Securities held by the Trustee. In the absence of such request the Trustee may dispose of canceled Securities in accordance with its standard procedures and deliver a certificate of disposition to the Company. If the Company shall otherwise acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. Section 2.09 Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and the holders of the Securities any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the holders of the Securities. Section 2.10 Authenticating Agent. So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding there may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. Said Authenticating Agent shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. All references in this Indenture to the authentication of Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the laws of any jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign immediately. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time (and upon request by the Company shall) terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon resignation, termination or cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Company. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto. 16
Section 2.11 Global Securities. (a) If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 2.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.04, authenticate and deliver, a Global Security that (i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.11 of the Indenture, this Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or to a nominee of such successor Depositary." (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.05, the Global Security of a series may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided in Section 2.05, only to another nominee of the Depositary for such series, or to a successor Depositary for such series selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary. (c) If at any time the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, this Section 2.11 shall no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series and the Company will execute, and subject to Section 2.05, the Trustee will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine that the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and that the provisions of this Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series. In such event the Company will execute and subject to Section 2.05, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security for such Securities in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Securities in definitive registered form issued in exchange for the Global Security pursuant to this Section 2.11(c) shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. 17
ARTICLE III REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES AND SINKING FUND PROVISIONS Section 3.01 Redemption. The Company may redeem the Securities of any series issued hereunder on and after the dates and in accordance with the terms established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof. Section 3.02 Notice of Redemption. (a) In case the Company shall desire to exercise such right to redeem all or, as the case may be, a portion of the Securities of any series in accordance with the right reserved so to do, the Company shall, or shall cause the Trustee to, give notice of such redemption to holders of the Securities of such series to be redeemed by mailing, first class postage prepaid, a notice of such redemption not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days before the date fixed for redemption of that series to such holders at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Security Register unless a shorter period is specified in the Securities to be redeemed. Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the registered holder receives the notice. In any case, failure duly to give such notice to the holder of any Security of any series designated for redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities of such series or any other series. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with any such restriction. Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption and the redemption price at which Securities of that series are to be redeemed, and shall state that payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be redeemed will be made at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, upon presentation and surrender of such Securities, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice, that from and after said date interest will cease to accrue and that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case. If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice to the holders of Securities of that series to be redeemed in whole or in part shall specify the particular Securities to be so redeemed. In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice that relates to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed, and shall state that on and after the redemption date, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued. (b) If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Company shall give the Trustee at least 45 days' notice in advance of the date fixed for redemption as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of the series to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select, by lot or in such other manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair in its discretion and that may provide for the selection of a portion or portions (equal to one thousand U.S. 18
dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of such Securities of a denomination larger than $1,000, the Securities to be redeemed and shall thereafter promptly notify the Company in writing of the numbers of the Securities to be redeemed, in whole or in part. The Company may, if and whenever it shall so elect, by delivery of instructions signed on its behalf by its President or any Vice President, instruct the Trustee or any Paying Agent to call all or any part of the Securities of a particular series for redemption and to give notice of redemption in the manner set forth in this Section, such notice to be in the name of the Company or its own name as the Trustee or such Paying Agent may deem advisable. In any case in which notice of redemption is to be given by the Trustee or any such Paying Agent, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered to, or permit to remain with, the Trustee or such Paying Agent, as the case may be, such Security Register, transfer books or other records, or suitable copies or extracts therefrom, sufficient to enable the Trustee or such Paying Agent to give any notice by mail that may be required under the provisions of this Section. Section 3.03 Payment Upon Redemption. (a) If the giving of notice of redemption shall have been completed as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities of the series to be redeemed specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption and interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the date fixed for redemption, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof. On presentation and surrender of such Securities on or after the date fixed for redemption at the place of payment specified in the notice, said Securities shall be paid and redeemed at the applicable redemption price for such series, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption (but if the date fixed for redemption is an interest payment date, the interest installment payable on such date shall be payable to the registered holder at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.03). (b) Upon presentation of any Security of such series that is to be redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and the office or agency where the Security is presented shall deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security of the same series of authorized denominations in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented. Section 3.04 Sinking Fund. The provisions of Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series. The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series 19
is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.05. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series. Section 3.05 Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities. The Company (i) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any Securities previously called for redemption) and (ii) may apply as a credit Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the redemption price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. Section 3.06 Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund. Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of the series, the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 3.05 and the basis for such credit and will, together with such Officers' Certificate, deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.02. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 3.03. ARTICLE IV CERTAIN COVENANTS Section 4.01 Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest. (a) The Company shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of and premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during any Deferral Period) on the Securities on or prior to the dates and in the manner provided in such Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. An installment of principal, premium, if any, or interest shall be considered paid on the applicable due date if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money sufficient to pay all of such installment then due. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.01(a) or any other provision herein to the contrary, the Company shall have the right, as provided in an Officer's Certificate or Supplemental Indenture issued pursuant to Section 2.01, in its sole and absolute discretion at any 20
time and from time to time while the Securities of any series are outstanding, so long as no Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, to defer payments of interest by extending the interest payment period for such series of Securities for the maximum consecutive period, if any, specified for such series of Securities, provided that such Deferral Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series, and must end on an Interest Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an Interest Payment Date or the Redemption Date for such Securities, and provided further that at the end of each Deferral Period the Company shall pay all interest then accrued and unpaid (together with interest thereon to the extent permitted by applicable law at the rate accruing on such Securities). Prior to the termination of a Deferral Period, the Company may shorten or may further extend the interest payment period for such series of Securities, provided that such Deferral Period together with all such previous and further extensions may not exceed the maximum consecutive period specified for such series of Securities, end on a date other than an Interest Payment Date or extend beyond the Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series. The Company shall give the Trustee written notice of the Company's election to begin a Deferral Period for any series of Securities and any shortening or extension thereof at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the date the interest on such Securities or distributions on the related Preferred Securities are payable or the date the trustees of a MetLife Trust are required to give notice to holders of Preferred Securities of such MetLife Trust of the record date or the date such distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five Business Days prior to such record date. The Company shall give or cause the Trustee to give notice (a form of which shall be provided by the Company to the Trustee) of the Company's election to begin a Deferral Period to the Holders by first class mail, postage prepaid. Section 4.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency. So long as any series of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company agrees to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, with respect to each such series and at such other location or locations as may be designated as provided in this Section 4.02, where (i) Securities of that series may be presented for payment, (ii) Securities of that series may be presented as hereinabove authorized for registration of transfer and exchange, and (iii) notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be given or served, such designation to continue with respect to such office or agency until the Company shall, by written notice signed by its President or a Vice President and delivered to the Trustee, designate some other office or agency for such purposes or any of them. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The 21
Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Section 4.03 Paying Agents. (a) If the Company shall appoint one or more Paying Agents for all or any series of the Securities, other than the Trustee, the Company will cause each such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section: (1) that it will hold all sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any or interest on the Securities of that series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any other obligor of such Securities) in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto; (2) that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor of such Securities) to make any payment of the principal of and premium, if any or interest on the Securities of that series when the same shall be due and payable; (3) that it will, at any time during the continuance of any failure referred to in the preceding paragraph (a)(2) above, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent; and (4) that it will perform all other duties of Paying Agent as set forth in this Indenture. (b) If the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of the Securities, it will on or before each due date of the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on Securities of that series, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay such principal, and premium, if any, or interest so becoming due on Securities of that series until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of such action, or any failure (by it or any other obligor on such Securities) to take such action. Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal, and premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of this action or failure so to act. (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, (i) the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the provisions of Section 11.05, and (ii) the Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which such sums were held by the Company 22
or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money. (d) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any money or Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company at its option at the request of the Company, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company. Section 4.04 Statement by Officers as to Default. The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. Section 4.05 Existence. Subject to Article Ten, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the holders. Section 4.06 Payment of Taxes. The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment or governmental charge 23
whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. Section 4.07 Covenants as to MetLife Trusts. In the event Securities are issued to a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust, for so long as such Trust Securities remain outstanding, the Company will covenant (i) to directly or indirectly maintain 100% ownership of the Common Securities of such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that any permitted successor of the Company under this Indenture may succeed to the Company's ownership of such Common Securities, (ii) to use its reasonable efforts to cause such MetLife Trust (a) to remain a statutory business trust, except in connection with the distribution of Securities to the holders of Trust Securities in liquidation of such MetLife Trust, the redemption of all of the Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust, or certain mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife Trust, and (b) to continue to be classified as a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes and (iii) to use its reasonable efforts to cause each holder of Trust Securities to be treated as owning an undivided beneficial interest in the Securities. Section 4.08 Waiver of Certain Covenants. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such series or in Section 4.06, if before the time for such compliance the holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by act of such holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect. Section 4.09 Appointment to Fill Vacancy in Office of Trustee. The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder. Section 4.10 Compliance with Consolidation Provisions. The Company will not, while any of the Securities remain Outstanding, consolidate with, or merge into, or merge into itself, or sell or convey all or substantially all of its property to any other company unless the provisions of Article Ten hereof are complied with. 24
ARTICLE V SECURITYHOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE Section 5.01 Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders. The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) on a monthly basis on each regular record date a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the holders of each series of Securities as of such regular record date, provided that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that, in either case, no such list need be furnished for any series for which the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar. Section 5.02 Preservation Of Information; Communications With Securityholders. (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 and as to the names and addresses of holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar (if acting in such capacity). (b) The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished. (c) Securityholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities. Section 5.03 Reports by the Company. (a) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports that may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act, in respect of a security listed and registered on a 25
national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations. (b) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations. (c) The Company covenants and agrees to transmit to the Securityholders, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission. Section 5.04 Reports by the Trustee. (a) On or before July 15 in each year in which any of the Securities are Outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register, a brief report dated as of the preceding May 15, if and to the extent required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. (b) The Trustee shall comply with Sections 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Securityholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed (if so listed) and also with the Commission. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when any Securities become listed on any stock exchange. ARTICLE VI REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS ON EVENT OF DEFAULT Section 6.01 Events of Default. (a) Whenever used herein with respect to Securities of a particular series, "Event of Default" means any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing, unless such event is specifically deleted or modified in accordance with Section 2.01: (1) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Securities of that series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period for the Securities of that series, failure to pay interest on the Securities of that series shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose; and, provided, further, that a valid extension of an interest payment period by the Company in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto, shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose; 26
(2) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of that series as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series; provided, however, that a valid extension of the maturity of such Securities in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto shall not constitute a default in the payment of principal or premium, if any; (3) the Company fails to observe or perform any other of its covenants or agreements with respect to that series contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to that series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof (other than a covenant or agreement that has been expressly included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than such series) for a period of 90 days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, by registered or certified mail, or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities of that series at the time Outstanding; (4) an event of default, as defined in any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness for money borrowed of the Company (other than a default under this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series or a default with respect to any non-recourse Indebtedness), whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, shall happen and shall result in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 of Indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not have been rescinded or annulled, or such Indebtedness shall not have been discharged, within a period of 15 days after there has been given, by registered or certified United States mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such event of default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled or to cause such Indebtedness to be discharged and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; (5) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of: (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or 27
(iii) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company; (6) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (iii) files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (v) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; (7) in the event Securities are issued to a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities by such MetLife Trust, such MetLife Trust shall have voluntarily or involuntarily dissolved, wound up its business or otherwise terminated its existence, except in connection with (i) the distribution of Securities to holders of Trust Securities in liquidation of their interests in such MetLife Trust, (ii) the redemption of all of the outstanding Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust or (iii) certain mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife Trust; or (8) any other Event of Default provided for pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of that series. (b) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by such Securityholders), may declare the principal of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any holder, become immediately due and payable. (c) At any time after the principal of the Securities of that series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay 28
all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that series and the principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Securities of that series that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate per annum or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) expressed in the Securities of that series (or at the respective rates of interest or Yields to Maturity of all the Securities, as the case may be) to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08. No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. (d) In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right with respect to Securities of that series under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken. Section 6.02 Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee. (a) The Company covenants that (1) in case it shall default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of a series, or any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series as and when the same shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 90 Business Days, or (2) in case it shall default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of a series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of a series or upon redemption or upon declaration or otherwise, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Securities of that series, the whole amount that then shall have been become due and payable on all such Securities for principal, and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal, and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum expressed in the Securities of that series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06. (b) If the Company shall fail to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or other obligor upon the 29
Securities of that series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or other obligor upon the Securities of that series, wherever situated. (c) In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment, arrangement, composition or judicial proceedings affecting the Company, or its creditors or property, the Trustee shall have power to intervene in such proceedings and take any action therein that may be permitted by the court and shall (except as may be otherwise provided by law) be entitled to file such proofs of claim and other papers and documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the holders of Securities of such series allowed for the entire amount due and payable by the Company under the Indenture at the date of institution of such proceedings and for any additional amount that may become due and payable by the Company after such date, and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to distribute the same after the deduction of the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the holders of Securities of such series to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it under Section 7.06. (d) All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the terms established with respect to Securities of that series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities, or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for payment to the Trustee of any amounts due under Section 7.06, be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities of such series. In case of an Event of Default hereunder, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of that series or the rights of any holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding. Section 6.03 Application of Moneys Collected. Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article with respect to a particular series of Securities shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal, or premium, if 30
any, or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of that series, and notation thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection and of all amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06; SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon Securities of such series for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, respectively; and THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its successors or assigns or to whomever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct. Section 6.04 Limitation on Suits. No holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (i) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof with respect to the Securities of such series specifying such Event of Default, as hereinbefore provided; (ii) the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as trustee hereunder; (iii) such holder or holders shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby; and (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or proceeding and (v) during such 60 day period, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any other provisions of this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on such Security, as therein provided, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or redemption date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder and by accepting a Security hereunder it is expressly understood, intended and covenanted by the taker and holder of every Security of such series with every other such taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of the holders of any other of such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Securities of such series. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this 31
Section, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity. Section 6.05 Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission Not Waiver. (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.07, all powers and remedies given by this Article to the Trustee or to the Securityholders shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to such Securities. (b) No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or on acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders. Section 6.06 Control by Securityholders. The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such series; provided, however, that such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture or be unduly prejudicial to the rights of holders of Securities of any other series at the time Outstanding determined in accordance with Section 8.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee shall determine in good faith that the proceeding so directed would expose the Trustee to personal liability. Section 6.07 Undertaking to Pay Costs. All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Securities by such holder's acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of Securityholders, holding more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, 32
or interest on any Security of such series, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or established pursuant to this Indenture. Section 6.08 Waiver of Past Defaults. The holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, may on behalf of the holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected; provided, however, that if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such trust, such waiver or modification to such waiver shall not be effective until the holders of a majority in liquidation preference of Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such waiver or modification to such waiver; provided, further, that if the consent of the holder of each outstanding Security is required, such waiver shall not be effective until each holder of the Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such waiver. Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon. ARTICLE VII CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE Section 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee. (a) The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing of all Events of Default with respect to the Securities of that series that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform with respect to the Securities of such series such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. In case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred (that has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs. (b) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: 33
(1) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default with respect to that series that may have occurred: (a) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of such series be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to the Securities of such series except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (b) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may with respect to the Securities of such series conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture; (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series; and (4) None of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Indenture or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it. Section 7.02 Certain Rights of Trustee. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01: (a) The Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; 34
(b) Any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution or an instrument signed in the name of the Company, by the President or any Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer thereof (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically prescribed herein); (c) The Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (d) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred therein or thereby; nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a series of the Securities (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs; (e) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; (f) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security, or other papers or documents, unless requested in writing so to do by the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the particular series affected thereby (determined as provided in Section 8.04); provided, however, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such costs, expenses or liabilities as a condition to so proceeding. The reasonable expense of every such examination shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand; and (g) The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder. Section 7.03 Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance or Securities. (a) The recitals contained herein and in the Securities shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. 35
(b) The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. (c) The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any of the Securities or of the proceeds of such Securities, or for the use or application of any moneys paid over by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture or established pursuant to Section 2.01, or for the use or application of any moneys received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee. Section 7.04 May Hold Securities. The Trustee or any Paying Agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Security Registrar. Section 7.05 Moneys Held in Trust. Subject to the provisions of Section 11.05, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it may agree with the Company to pay thereon. Section 7.06 Compensation and Reimbursement. (a) The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such reasonable compensation (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), as the Company, and the Trustee may from time to time agree in writing, for all services rendered by it in the execution of the trusts hereby created and in the exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties hereunder of the Trustee, and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Company also covenants to indemnify the Trustee (and its officers, agents, directors and employees) for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability in the premises. (b) The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder. Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Securities. 36
Section 7.07 Reliance on Officers' Certificate. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof. Section 7.08 Disqualification; Conflicting Interests. If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 7.09 Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility. There shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to the Securities issued hereunder which shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, or a corporation or other Person permitted to act as trustee by the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least 50 million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000), and subject to supervision or examination by federal, state, territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. The Company may not, nor may any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company, serve as Trustee. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10. Section 7.10 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) The Trustee or any successor hereafter appointed, may at any time resign with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company and by transmitting notice of resignation by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of 37
resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series, or any Securityholder of that series who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee. (b) In case at any time any one of the following shall occur: (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months; or (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder; or (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation; then, in any such case, (i) the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities and appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or (ii) unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided herein, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of that holder and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee. (c) The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee for such series with the consent of the Company. (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of a series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11. (e) Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series. 38
Section 7.11 Acceptance of Appointment By Successor. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights, powers, and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, (2) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any act or failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, such retiring Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates have no further responsibility for the exercise of rights and powers or for the performance of the duties and obligations vested in the Trustee under this Indenture, and each such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee, to the extent contemplated by such supplemental indenture, the property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates. (c) Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be. 39
(d) No successor trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. (e) Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section, the Company shall transmit notice of the succession of such trustee hereunder by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. If the Company fails to transmit such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be transmitted at the expense of the Company. Section 7.12 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. Section 7.13 Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company. The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein. ARTICLE VIII CONCERNING THE SECURITYHOLDERS Section 8.01 Evidence of Action by Securityholders. Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a majority or specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the holders of such majority or specified percentage of that series have joined therein may be evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by such holders of Securities of that series in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing. If the Company shall solicit from the Securityholders of any series any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Company may, at its option, as evidenced by an Officers' Certificate, fix in advance a record date for such series for the 40
determination of Securityholders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action may be given before or after the record date, but only the Securityholders of record at the close of business on the record date shall be deemed to be Securityholders for the purposes of determining whether Securityholders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of that series have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of that series shall be computed as of the record date; provided, however, that no such authorization, agreement or consent by such Securityholders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date. Section 8.02 Proof of Execution by Securityholders. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder (such proof will not require notarization) or his agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner: (a) The fact and date of the execution by any such Person of any instrument may be proved in any reasonable manner acceptable to the Trustee. (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register of such Securities or by a certificate of the Security Registrar thereof. (c) The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section as it shall deem necessary. Section 8.03 Who May be Deemed Owners. Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and any Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name such Security shall be registered upon the books of the Company as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 2.03) interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. Section 8.04 Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded. In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Securities of a particular series have concurred in any direction, consent of waiver under this Indenture, the Securities of that series that are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under common control with the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series 41
shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver, only Securities of such series that the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. The Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section, if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not a Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any such other obligor. In case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee. Section 8.05 Actions Binding on Future Securityholders. At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Security of that series that is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee, and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Security, and of any Security issued in exchange therefor, on registration of transfer thereof or in place thereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security. Any action taken by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the holders of all the Securities of that series. ARTICLE IX SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 9.01 Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of Securityholders. In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of the Securityholders, for one or more of the following purposes: (1) to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency herein, in the Securities of any series; (2) to comply with Article Ten; (3) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities; 42
(4) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the holders of all or any Series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; (5) to add to, delete from, or revise the conditions, limitations, and restrictions on the authorized amount, terms, or purposes of issue, authentication, and delivery of Securities, as herein set forth; (6) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Securityholder in any material respect; (7) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any series as provided in Section 2.01, to establish the form of any certifications required to be furnished pursuant to the terms of this Indenture or any series of Securities, or to add to the rights of the holders of any series of Securities; (8) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; (9) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); (10) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; (11) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor modify the rights of the holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; (12) to secure the Securities; or (13) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 7.11. 43
The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02. Section 9.02 Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders. With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures at the time Outstanding, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner not covered by Section 9.01 the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities of any series, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof; (ii) reduce the amount of principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01(b); (iii) change the currency in which any Security or any premium or interest is payable; (iv) impair the right to enforce any payment on or with respect to any Security; (v) adversely change the right to convert or exchange, including decreasing the conversion rate or increasing the conversion price of, such Security (if applicable); (vi) reduce the percentage in principal amount of outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose holders is required for modification or amendment of this Indenture or for waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or for waiver of certain defaults; (vii) reduce the requirements contained in this Indenture for quorum or voting; or (viii) modify any of the above provisions; provided, further, that if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such Trust, such supplemental indenture shall not be effective until the holders of not less than a majority in liquidation preference of Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such supplemental indenture; and, provided, further, that if the consent of the holder of each outstanding Security is required, such supplemental indenture shall not be effective until each holder of the Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such supplemental indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders of any series affected thereby under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof. 44
Section 9.03 Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article X, this Indenture shall, with respect to such series, be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of Securities of the series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes. Section 9.04 Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures. Securities of any series, affected by a supplemental indenture, authenticated and delivered after the execution of such supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article X, may bear a notation in form approved by the Company, provided such form meets the requirements of any exchange upon which such series may be listed, as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of that series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of that series then Outstanding. Section 9.05 Execution of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by its Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders required to consent thereto as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may, in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article and that it is proper for the Trustee under the provisions of this Article to join in the execution thereof; provided, however, that such Opinion of Counsel need not be provided in connection with the execution of a supplemental indenture that establishes the terms of a series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof. Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the Securityholders of all series affected thereby as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Any failure of the Trustee to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture. 45
ARTICLE X CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE Section 10.01 When the Company May Consolidate, Merge, Etc. The Company may not (a) merge with or into or consolidate with, or (b) sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to, any Person other than, with respect to this clause (b), a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and no Person shall (x) merge with or into or consolidate with the Company, or (y) except for any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to the Company, unless: (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or the Person formed by or surviving such merger or consolidation or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made (the "Successor"), if other than the Company, shall expressly assume by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities, this Indenture, the Common Securities Guarantee and the Preferred Securities Guarantee; (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; (c) if at the time any Preferred Securities are outstanding, such transaction is not prohibited under the Declaration and the Preferred Securities Guarantee; and (d) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture. The Successor will be the successor to the Company, and will be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power and become the obligor on the Securities with the same effect as if the Successor had been named as the Company herein but, in the case of a sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, the predecessor Company will not be released from its obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities. ARTICLE XI SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE Section 11.01 Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. If at any time: (a) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Securities that shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07) and Securities for whose payment money or Governmental Obligations have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company (and thereupon repaid to the 46
Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 11.05); or (b) all such Securities of a particular series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit or cause to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in moneys or Governmental Obligations sufficient or a combination thereof, sufficient in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon redemption all Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder with respect to such series by the Company then this Indenture shall thereupon cease to be of further effect with respect to such series except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 7.10, that shall survive until the date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, and Sections 7.06 and 11.05, that shall survive to such date and thereafter, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and expense of the Company shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series. Section 11.02 Discharge of Obligations. If at any time all such Securities of a particular series not heretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that have not become due and payable as described in Section 11.01 shall have been paid by the Company by depositing irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds money in U.S. dollars sufficient or an amount of non-callable Governmental Obligations, the principal of and interest on which when due, will be sufficient or a combination thereof, sufficient in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon redemption all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such series, then after the date such moneys or Governmental Obligations, as the case may be, are deposited with the Trustee the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such series shall cease to be of further effect except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 7.06, 7.10 and 11.05 hereof that shall survive until such Securities shall mature and be paid. Thereafter, Sections 7.06 and 11.05 shall survive. Section 11.03 Deposited Moneys to be Held in Trust. All moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Sections 11.01 or 11.02 shall be held in trust and shall be available for payment as due, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent), to the holders of the particular series of Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee. 47
Section 11.04 Payment of Moneys Held by Paying Agents. In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture all moneys or Governmental Obligations then held by any Paying Agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be paid to the Trustee and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations. Section 11.05 Repayment to Company. Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with any Paying Agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of or premium or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least two years after the date upon which the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company on May 31 of each year or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and thereupon the Paying Agent and the Trustee shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations, and the holder of any of the Securities entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for the payment thereof. ARTICLE XII IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Section 12.01 No Recourse. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of such Securities. 48
ARTICLE XIII DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE Section 13.01 Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, designated pursuant to Section 2.01 as being defeasible pursuant to such Sections 13.02 or 13.03, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to Section 2.01 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for such Securities. Section 13.02 Defeasance and Discharge. Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 13.04 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due, (2) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 13.03 applied to such Securities. Section 13.03 Covenant Defeasance. Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Article X, Section 4.06, and any covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such Securities and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 6.01(3) (with respect to any of Article X, Section 4.06, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7)), 6.01(a)(7) and 6.01(a)(8) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in 49
any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 6.01(3)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. Section 13.04 Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be: (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 7.09 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the respective Stated Maturities, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. (2) In the event of an election to have Section 13.02 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur. (3) In the event of an election to have Section 13.03 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur. (4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that it has been informed by the relevant securities exchange(s) that neither 50
such Securities nor any other Securities of the same series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will be delisted as a result of such deposit. (5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any other Securities shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) and 6.01(a)(6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day). (6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any indenture or other agreement or instrument for borrowed money, pursuant to which in excess of $100,000,000 principal amount is then outstanding, to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound. (7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder. (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with. Section 13.05 Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.03(d), all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of any Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the holders of Outstanding Securities. Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon request of the Company any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would 51
then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities. Section 13.06 Reinstatement. If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Sections 13.02 or 13.03 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust. ARTICLE XIV MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 14.01 Effect on Successors and Assigns. All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. Section 14.02 Actions by Successor. Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the corresponding board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company. Section 14.03 Surrender of Company Powers. The Company by instrument in writing executed by authority of 2/3 (two- thirds) of its Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee may surrender any of the powers reserved to the Company under this Indenture, and thereupon such power so surrendered shall terminate both as to the Company and as to any successor corporation. Section 14.04 Notices. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein any notice or demand that by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the holders of Securities to or on the Company may be given or served by being deposited first class postage prepaid in a post-office letterbox addressed (until another address is filed in writing by the Company with the Trustee), as follows: MetLife, Inc., One Madison Avenue, New York, 52
New York 10010-10036, Attention: Treasurer, with copies of any notice of an Event of Default to the attention of the General Counsel at the same address. Any notice, election, request or demand by the Company or any Securityholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or made in writing at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. Section 14.05 Governing Law. This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State. Section 14.06 Treatment of Securities as Debt. It is intended that the Securities will be treated as indebtedness and not as equity for federal income tax purposes. The provisions of this Indenture shall be interpreted to further this intention. Section 14.07 Compliance Certificates and Opinions. (a) Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company, shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. (b) Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with. Section 14.08 Payments on Business Days. Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Board Resolution, and as set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture, in any case where the date of maturity of interest or principal of any Security or the date of redemption of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal, and premium, if any, may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the nominal date of maturity or redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such nominal date. 53
Section 14.09 Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. Section 14.10 Counterparts. This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Section 14.11 Separability. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein. Section 14.12 Assignment. The Company will have the right at all times to assign any of its rights or obligations under this Indenture to a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provided that, in the event of any such assignment, the Company, will remain liable for all such obligations. Subject to the foregoing, the Indenture is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the parties thereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Indenture may not otherwise be assigned by the parties thereto. Section 14.13 Acknowledgment of Rights. The Company acknowledges that, with respect to any Securities held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such Trust, if the Property Trustee of such Trust fails to enforce its rights under this Indenture as the holder of the series of Securities held as the assets of such MetLife Trust, any holder of Preferred Securities may institute legal proceedings directly against the Company to enforce such Property Trustee's rights under this Indenture without first instituting any legal proceedings against such Property Trustee or any other person or entity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and such event is attributable to the failure of the Company to pay interest or principal on the applicable series of Securities on the date such interest or principal is otherwise payable (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), the Company acknowledges that a holder of Preferred Securities may directly institute a proceeding for enforcement of payment to such holder of the principal of or interest on the applicable series of Securities having a principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities of such holder as determined after the respective due date specified in the applicable series of Securities. 54
ARTICLE XV SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES Section 15.01 Agreement to Subordinate. The Company covenants and agrees, and each holder of Securities issued hereunder and under any supplemental indenture or by any resolutions by the Board of Directors ("Additional Provisions") by such holder's acceptance thereof likewise covenants and agrees, that all Securities shall be issued subject to the provisions of this Article Fifteen; and each holder of a Security, whether upon original issue or upon transfer or assignment thereof, accepts and agrees to be bound by such provisions. The payment by the Company of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Securities issued hereunder and under any Additional Provisions shall, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, be subordinate in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, whether outstanding at the date of this Indenture or thereafter incurred. No provision of this Article Fifteen shall prevent the occurrence of any default or Event of Default hereunder. Section 15.02 Default on Senior Indebtedness. In the event and during the continuation of any default by the Company in the payment of principal, premium, interest or any other payment due on any Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, or in the event that the maturity of any Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, has been accelerated because of a default, then, in either case, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to the principal (including redemption and sinking fund payments) of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities. In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment shall be received by the Trustee when such payment is prohibited by the preceding paragraph of this Section 15.02, before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full, such payment shall be held in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered to, the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their respective representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear. Section 15.03 Liquidation; Dissolution; Bankruptcy. Upon any payment by the Company or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to creditors upon any dissolution or winding-up or liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary or in bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, general assignment, marshaling of any assets or liabilities for the benefit of creditors or other proceedings, all amounts due upon all Senior Indebtedness of the Company shall first be paid in full, or payment thereof provided for in money in accordance with its terms, before any payment is made by the Company on account of the principal, and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities; and upon any such dissolution or 55
winding-up or liquidation or reorganization, any payment by the Company, or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the holders or the Trustee would be entitled to receive from the Company, except for the provisions of this Article Fifteen, shall be paid by the Company or by any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, liquidating trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, or by the holders or by the Trustee under the Indenture if received by them or it, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company (pro rata to such holders on the basis of the respective amounts of Senior Indebtedness held by such holders, as calculated by the Company) or their representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, to the extent necessary to pay such Senior Indebtedness in full, in money or money's worth, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of such Senior Indebtedness, before any payment or distribution is made to the holders or to the Trustee. In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, prohibited by the foregoing, shall be received by the Trustee before all Senior Indebtedness of the Company is paid in full, or provision is made for such payment in money in accordance with its terms, such payment or distribution shall be held in trust for the benefit of and shall be paid over or delivered to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, and their respective interests may appear, as calculated by the Company, for application to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay such Senior Indebtedness in full in money in accordance with its terms, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the benefit of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness. For purposes of this Article Fifteen, the words "cash, property or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which is subordinated at least to the extent provided in this Article Fifteen with respect to the Securities to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, that may at the time be outstanding, provided that such Senior Indebtedness is assumed by the new corporation, if any, resulting from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness are not, without the consent of such holders, altered by such reorganization or readjustment. The consolidation of the Company with, or the merger of the Company into, another corporation or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company following the conveyance or transfer of its property as an entirety, or substantially as an entirety, to another corporation upon the terms and conditions provided for in Article Ten of this Indenture shall not be deemed a dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization for the purposes of this Section 15.03 if such other corporation shall, as a part of such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer, comply with the conditions stated in Article Ten of this Indenture. Nothing in Section 15.02 or in this Section 15.03 shall apply to claims of, or payments, the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 7.06 of this Indenture. 56
Section 15.04 Subrogation. Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the rights of the holders of the Securities shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company, as the case may be, applicable to such Senior Indebtedness until the principal of, and premium, if any and interest on the Securities shall be paid in full; and, for the purposes of such subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness of any cash, property or securities to which the holders of the Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article Fifteen, and no payment over pursuant to the provisions of this Article Fifteen to or for the benefit of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness by holders of the Securities or the Trustee, shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, and the holders of the Securities, be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on account of such Senior Indebtedness. It is understood that the provisions of this Article Fifteen are and are intended solely for the purposes of defining the relative rights of the holders of the Securities, on the one hand, and the holders of such Senior Indebtedness on the other hand. Nothing contained in this Article Fifteen or elsewhere in this Indenture, any Additional Provisions or in the Securities is intended to or shall impair, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, and the holders of the Securities, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay to the holders of the Securities the principal of, and premium, if any and interest on the Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or is intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the holders of the Securities and creditors of the Company, as the case may be, other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, nor shall anything herein or therein prevent the Trustee or the holder of any Security from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article Fifteen of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of any such remedy. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article Fifteen, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture, and the holders shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any order or decree made by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization proceedings are pending, or a certificate of the receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, liquidation trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the holders, for the purposes of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Fifteen. Section 15.05 Trustee to Effectuate Subordination. Each holder of Securities by such holder's acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on such holder's behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to 57
effectuate the subordination provided in this Article Fifteen and appoints the Trustee such holder's attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. Section 15.06 Notice by the Company. The Company shall give prompt written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Article Fifteen. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article Fifteen or any other provision of this Indenture or any Additional Provisions, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Article Fifteen, unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the Company or a holder or holders of Senior Indebtedness or from any trustee therefor; and before the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Six of this Indenture, shall be entitled in all respects to assume that no such facts exist; provided, however, that if the Trustee shall not have received the notice provided for in this Section 15.06 at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any money may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any or interest on any debt security), then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such money and to apply the same to the purposes for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture, shall be entitled to conclusively rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be (or a trustee on behalf of such holder), to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of such Senior Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of such Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article Fifteen, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of such Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article Fifteen, and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment. Section 15.07 Rights of the Trustee; Holders of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article Fifteen in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness, and nothing in this Indenture or any Additional Provisions shall deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder. With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants and obligations as are specifically 58
set forth in this Article Fifteen, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture or any Additional Provisions against the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture, the Trustee shall not be liable to any holder of such Senior Indebtedness if it shall pay over or deliver to holders, the Company or any other Person money or assets to which any holder of such Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article Fifteen or otherwise. Nothing in this Article Fifteen shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 7.06. Section 15.08 Subordination May Not Be Impaired. No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness of the Company to enforce subordination as herein provided shall at any time in any way be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company, as the case may be, or by any act or failure to act, in good faith, by any such holder of Securities, or by any noncompliance by the Company, as the case may be, with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Indenture, regardless of any knowledge thereof that any such holder may have or otherwise be charged with. Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company may, at any time and from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Trustee or the holders of Securities, without incurring responsibility to the holders of Securities and without impairing or releasing the subordination provided in this Article Fifteen or the obligations hereunder of the holders of the Securities to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness, do any one or more of the following: (i) change the manner, place or terms of payment or extend the time of payment of, or renew or alter, such Senior Indebtedness, or otherwise amend or supplement in any manner such Senior Indebtedness or any instrument evidencing the same or any agreement under which such Senior Indebtedness is outstanding; (ii) sell, exchange, release or otherwise deal with any property pledged, mortgaged or otherwise securing such Senior Indebtedness; (iii) release any Person liable in any manner for the collection of such Senior Indebtedness; and (iv) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against the Company, as the case may be, and any other Person. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original. But all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC. By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson ----------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel ----------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signatory 60

EXHIBIT 4.6 ================================================================================ METLIFE, INC., ISSUER and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, TRUSTEE First Supplemental Indenture Dated as of June 21, 2005 Supplement to the Indenture of MetLife, Inc. dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
Section 7.1 Subordination...................................................... 23 Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination.............................. 23 Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules........................ 23 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Effectiveness...................................................... 24 Section 8.2 Further Assurances................................................. 24 Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals................................................. 24 Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture..................................... 24 Section 8.5 Governing Law...................................................... 24 Section 8.6 Counterparts....................................................... 24
ii
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005 (this "First Supplemental Indenture"), to the Base Indenture (as defined below), dated as of the date hereof, between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture (as defined below), a national banking association (the "Trustee"). WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Base Indenture," and together with this First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"); and WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Base Indenture may be amended without the consent of any Holder (i) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of any series as provided in Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and (ii) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Base Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination does not apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of the amendment; WHEREAS, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 14.07 of the Base Indenture to the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to the Trustee's execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture have been complied with; WHEREAS, MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), has offered to the public its Series A Trust Preferred Securities (the "Trust Preferred Securities"), representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust, and proposes to invest the proceeds from such offering, together with the proceeds of the issuance and sale by the Trust to the Company of its Common Securities (together with the Trust Preferred Securities, the "Trust Securities"), in the Series A Debentures; WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series A Debentures will be subject to Remarketing, in connection with which certain terms of the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series A Debentures may be changed, all in accordance with the procedures to be set forth in a Remarketing Agreement to be entered into among the Company, the Trust (in the event the Trust Preferred Securities are outstanding on any Remarketing Date), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Remarketing Agent; and WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture and satisfy all requirements necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Series A Debentures, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this First Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects: NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee agree as follows: 1
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE Section 1.1 Definition of Terms. Unless the context otherwise requires: (a) a term defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in this First Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified herein; (b) a term defined anywhere in this First Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout; (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa; (d) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation; (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in the Trust Agreement: Administrative Trustee; Delaware Trustee; Distributions; Initial Liquidation Amount; Property Trustee; Record Date; Remarketing; Remarketing Agent; Remarketing Agreement; Remarketing Date; Remarketing Settlement Date; Trust Preferred Securities Certificate; Stock Purchase Contract Agent and Successful. (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.1(f): "Accreted Interest" means, for any Interest Period for any Series A Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Accreted Principal Amount of such Series A Debenture at the beginning of the Interest Period in which such date occurs, multiplied by (ii) the Applicable Yield for such Interest Period, multiplied by (iii) the quotient of the actual number of days elapsed from and including the first day of such Interest Period, to but excluding the date of determination divided by 360; provided that the Accreted Interest for any full Interest Period shall be calculated by reference to the actual number of days in such Interest Period divided by 360. "Accreted Principal Amount" means, for any Series A Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Original Principal Amount of such Series A Debenture, plus (ii) the sum of the Accreted Interest (if any) for each Interest Period concluding on or prior to such date, plus (iii) the Accreted Interest for the Interest Period in which such date occurs as of the date of determination. "Additional Interest" means the interest that shall accrue on any interest on the Series A Debentures the payment of which has not been made on the applicable Interest Payment Date. References herein to "interest" include Additional Interest unless the context otherwise requires. "Applicable Yield" means (1) prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date, 0%, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series A Debentures will 2
bear cash interest, from and after the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date, for any Interest Period, the Reset Yield for such Interest Period and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series A Debentures bear cash interest, 0%. "Collateral Agent" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Creditor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1. "Holder" means a Securityholder (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Series A Debentures. "Early Termination Event" means the dissolution of the Trust and the distribution of the Series A Debentures held by the Property Trustee to the holders of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust pro rata in accordance with the Trust Agreement. "Final Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Global Series A Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4. "Interest Period" means (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, the period from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or June 21, 2005 if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment) to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series A Debentures will bear cash interest from and after such Remarketing, the period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date to the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures, and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series A Debentures bear cash interest, the period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date or, if later, the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available, to but excluding the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, or, if earlier, then the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures. "Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4. "Normal Common Equity Units" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Original Principal Amount" of a Series A Debenture means the stated Original Principal Amount as set forth on the face of such Series A Debenture. "Reset Rate" means the rate of interest on the Series A Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company elected that the Series A Debentures would pay 3
interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances). "Reset Yield" means the yield to maturity on the Series A Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company did not elect that the Series A Debentures would pay interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances). "Series A Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means that certain agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Trust" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees and the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to the Trust. "Trust Securities" has the meaning provided in the recitals hereto. Section 1.2 Scope. The changes, modifications and supplements to the Base Indenture effected by this First Supplemental Indenture shall only be applicable with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Series A Debentures and shall not apply to any other series of Securities that may be issued under the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other series of Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. ARTICLE II GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES A DEBENTURES Section 2.1 Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination. There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 4.82% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series A, due 2039 (the "Series A Debentures"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,067,010,000, which amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Series A Debentures pursuant to the Indenture. The Series A Debentures shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and integral multiples thereof. 4
Section 2.2 Maturity. The Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will be February 15, 2039, subject to change as provided in Section 2.12. Section 2.3 Form and Payment. Except as provided in Section 2.4, the Series A Debentures shall be issued in fully registered definitive form without interest coupons. Principal of and interest on the Series A Debentures issued in definitive form will be payable, the transfer of such Series A Debentures will be registrable and such Series A Debentures will be exchangeable for Series A Debentures bearing identical terms and provisions at the office or agency of the Trustee; provided, however, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Holder at such address as shall appear in the Register or by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the bank account number of the Holder specified in writing by the Holder and entered in the Register by the Registrar. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Holder of any Series A Debenture is the Property Trustee, the payment of the principal of and interest (including expenses and taxes of the Trust set forth in Section 3.1 hereof, if any) on such Series A Debentures held by the Property Trustee will be made at such place and to such account as may be designated in writing by the Property Trustee. Section 2.4 Global Series A Debenture. (a) The Depository Trust Company shall serve as the initial Depositary for the Series A Debentures. (b) The Series A Debentures shall be issued initially in fully registered form in the name of the Property Trustee, in its capacity as such. In connection with an Early Termination Event, (i) the Series A Debentures in definitive form may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee for exchange for one or more Global Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) representing Series A Debentures in an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Original Principal Amount of all outstanding Series A Debentures (each a "Global Series A Debenture"), to be registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee, and delivered by the Property Trustee to the Depositary for crediting to the accounts of its participants pursuant to the instructions of the Administrative Trustees. The Company upon any such presentation shall execute one or more Global Series A Debentures in such aggregate Original Principal Amount and deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Global Series A Debentures, together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication, will authenticate such Global Series A Debentures. Payments on the Series A Debentures issued as Global Series A Debentures will be made to the Depositary; and (ii) if any Trust Preferred Securities are held in non book-entry definitive form, the Series A Debentures in certificated form may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee and any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate which represents Trust Preferred Securities other 5
than Trust Preferred Securities held by the Depositary or its nominee ("Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities") will be deemed to represent beneficial interests in the Series A Debentures presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee having an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of the Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities until such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are presented to the Property Trustee for transfer or reissuance, at which time such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates will be cancelled and a Series A Debenture, registered in the name of the Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or the transferee of the Holder of such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, as the case may be, with an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate cancelled, will be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture to such Holder. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Series A Debenture together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication, shall authenticate such Series A Debenture. On issue of such Series A Debentures, Series A Debentures with an equivalent aggregate Original Principal Amount that were presented by the Property Trustee to the Trustee will be deemed to have been cancelled. (c) Unless and until it is exchanged for the Series A Debentures in definitive form, a Global Series A Debenture may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only by the Depository or the nominee of the Depository to another nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary. (d) If after Global Series A Debentures are issued (a) at any time the Depositary for Global Series A Debentures notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Series A Debentures or if at any time the Depositary for such Global Series A Debentures shall no longer be a clearing agency registered or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or other applicable statute or regulation when the Depository is required to be so registered to act as the Depository, and in either case a successor Depositary for such Global Series A Debentures is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (b) the Company determines in its sole discretion that the Series A Debentures shall no longer be represented by one or more Global Series A Debentures and delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination, then the Company will execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver Series A Debentures of like tenor in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the Original Principal Amount of the Global Series A Debentures in exchange for such Global Series A Debentures. Upon the exchange of Global Series A Debentures for such Series A Debentures in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the Global Series A Debentures shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Series A Debentures in definitive registered form issued in exchange for Global Series A Debentures pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Series A Debentures to the Persons in whose names such Series A Debentures are so registered. 6
Section 2.5 Interest. (a) Each Series A Debenture will bear interest and, following the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest or Accreted Interest, as applicable, all as provided in the form of Series A Debentures set forth in Section 4.1 hereof. (b) The Company shall have the right to defer the payment of cash interest on the Series A Debentures, as provided in Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, for one or more Deferral Periods of not longer than five years each. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of its election to begin any such Deferral Period at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding date on which Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities would be payable but for such deferral, and (ii) the date on which the Property Trustee is required to give notice to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of the Record Date or the date such Distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five Business Days prior to such Record Date, provided, however, that in no event shall such notice of election be sent more than fifteen Business Days prior to the date on which payments of all amounts then due in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities are scheduled to occur. (c) The Series A Debentures are not entitled to any sinking fund payments. Section 2.6 Redemption of the Series A Debentures. (a) The Series A Debentures shall not be subject to the right of redemption specified in Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture. (b) If in connection with the Remarketing the Series A Debentures become redeemable at the option of the Company, any such redemption shall be effected in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture. Section 2.7 Put Right of Holders. If a there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009, each Holder of Series A Debentures will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series A Debentures on such date as described below. Such right will be exercisable only upon delivery of notice to the Trustee (i) for as long as the Series A Debentures are held by the Property Trustee, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately prior to February 15, 2009, or (ii) in all other cases, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the second Business Day prior to February 15, 2009. The Company shall purchase such Series A Debentures at a Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a junior subordinated note of the Company (which shall be subordinated and rank junior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future Senior Indebtedness), bearing interest at the rate of 4.82% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Settlement of such purchase shall be effected on February 15, 2009. Subject to the foregoing, any such purchase by the Company shall be effected in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture. 7
Section 2.8 Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of Interest. If there shall have occurred and be continuing any event that, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would be an Event of Default with respect to the Series A Debentures of which the Company shall have actual knowledge and which the Company shall not have taken reasonable steps to cure; the Series A Debentures shall be held by the Trust and the Company shall be in default with respect to its payment of any obligations under the Guarantee; or the Company shall have given notice of its election to begin a Deferral Period with respect to the Series A Debentures as provided herein and shall not have rescinded such notice, and such Deferral Period, or any extension thereof, shall be continuing, then the Company covenants and agrees with the Holders that it shall not: (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of capital stock of the Company other than (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (y) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the case may be; (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company's subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of capital stock of the Company; (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto; (v) payments by the Company under any Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities; or (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock; (b) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Company that rank equal with or junior to the Series A Debentures; or 8
(c) make any payment under any guarantee that ranks equally with or junior to the Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 2.9 Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration. (a) The Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities such notices as it shall from time to time provide under Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities notice of any Event of Default or event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Series A Debentures within 30 days after such Event of Default or other event becomes known to the Trustee. (b) Upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity of the Series A Debentures pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture, the Accreted Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all Series A Debentures shall become due and payable immediately. Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers. The Company may from time to time obtain CUSIP numbers for the Series A Debentures and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Series A Debentures or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only the other identification numbers printed on the Series A Debentures, and no action shall be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent. The Company initially appoints the Trustee as the Security Registrar and Paying Agent for the Series A Debentures. Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing. In connection with Remarketings, the Company shall have the right hereunder to change certain terms of the Series A Debentures as provided below in this Section 2.12. By not later than the 25th Business Day prior to each Remarketing Date, the Company will specify the following information or elections in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraph (a) through (e) applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing): (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Series A Debentures will pay interest in cash (it being understood and agreed that, unless the Company affirmatively elects to cause the Series A Debentures to pay interest in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will not be paid in cash but, instead, will accrete as provided in the Series A Debentures); 9
(b) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will remain at February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); provided, however, that the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (c) whether the Series A Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's option on a day prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures and, if so, the date on and after which the Series A Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, that an early redemption date may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (d) whether the Company elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add any additional financial covenants to the Indenture, including the form of supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to any such additional financial covenants; (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Company is exercising its right under Section 6.2 of this First Supplemental Indenture to cause the subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Series A Debentures to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing Settlement Date; and if so, whether it also elects that the Series A Debentures shall no longer be subject to the interest deferral provisions of Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture; and (f) if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing: (i) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will remain at February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); and (ii) whether the Series A Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's option on a date prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures and, if so, the date on and after which the Series A Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, any changed Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Prior to an Early Termination Event, any such elections made by the Company as Sponsor pursuant to the Trust Agreement shall, upon successful completion of a Remarketing, automatically apply and come into effect in respect of the Series A Debentures. In the event of an Early Termination Event, the provisions of Article X of the Trust Agreement shall be deemed thereafter to apply, mutatis mutandis, to any Remarketing of the Series A Debentures, and the Company and the Trustee shall promptly enter into a supplemental indenture, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, making provision for remarketing and reset mechanics, including notices in respect thereof, on the basis set forth in such Article X. 10
ARTICLE III EXPENSES Section 3.1 Expenses. In connection with the offering, sale and issuance of the Series A Debentures to the Property Trustee and in connection with the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust, the Company, in its capacity as borrower with respect to the Series A Debentures, shall: (a) pay all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance of the Series A Debentures, including commissions to the underwriters payable pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and compensation, fees and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Trustee under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture; and (b) be responsible for and shall pay all debts and obligations and all costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, costs and expenses relating to the organization, maintenance and dissolution of the Trust), the offering, sale and issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities (including commissions to the underwriters in connection therewith), the fees and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees, the costs and expenses relating to the operation of the Trust, including, without limitation, costs and expenses of accountants, attorneys, statistical or bookkeeping services, expenses for printing and engraving and computing or accounting equipment, paying agent(s), registrar(s), transfer agent(s), duplicating, travel and telephone and other telecommunications expenses and costs and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, financing, and disposition of Trust assets and the enforcement by the Property Trustee of the rights of the Holders of the Series A Debentures. The Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 shall be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, any person to whom such debts, obligations and costs are owed (a "Creditor") whether or not such Creditor has received notice hereof. Any such Creditor may enforce the Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 directly against the Company and the Company irrevocably waives any right or remedy to require that any such Creditor take any action against the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Company. The Company agrees to execute such additional agreements as may be necessary or desirable in order to give full effect to the provisions of this Section 3.1. Article IV FORM OF SERIES A DEBENTURES Section 4.1 Form of Series A Debentures. The Series A Debentures and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the following forms: 11
[IF THE SERIES A DEBENTURE IS TO BE A GLOBAL SERIES A DEBENTURE, INSERT - This Series A Debenture is a Global Series A Debenture within the meaning of the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof) and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Series A Debenture is exchangeable for Series A Debentures registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Series A Debenture (other than a transfer of this Series A Debenture as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary) may be registered except in limited circumstances. Unless this Series A Debenture is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Series A Debenture issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.] 12
THE SERIES A DEBENTURES ARE THE UNSECURED AND UNSUBORDINATED OBLIGATIONS OF METLIFE, INC. AND ARE NOT DEPOSITS, SAVINGS ACCOUNTS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF ANY BANK OR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION. THE SERIES A DEBENTURES ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY OR INSURER. 13
No. _____________________ Original Principal Amount: $____ Issue Date: June 21, 2005 CUSIP No.: _____________________ ISIN: __________________________ METLIFE, INC. 4.82% JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBT SECURITIES, SERIES A, DUE 2039 METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof)) for value received, hereby promises to pay to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, AS PROPERTY TRUSTEE, the Accreted Principal Amount (as defined in the Indenture) on February 15, 2039 or such earlier date as may be specified by the Company following a Remarketing (as defined in the Indenture) (such date is hereinafter referred to as the "Stated Maturity Date"). This Series A Debenture shall bear interest and Accreted Interest (as defined in the Indenture) as specified on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture. This Series A Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee. 14
The provisions of this Series A Debenture are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed. Dated: METLIFE, INC. By:____________________________ Name: Title: 15
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Series A Debentures referred to in the Indenture. Dated: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ___________________________ Authorized Signatory 16
(FORM OF REVERSE OF SERIES A DEBENTURE) This Series A Debenture is one of a duly authorized series (the "Series A Debentures") of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company, issued under and pursuant to a Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Series A Debentures. By the terms of the Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This Series A Debenture will bear interest from June 21, 2005 or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate per annum equal to 4.82%, subject to reset as set forth below; in addition, each installment of interest that would otherwise have been due and payable during any Deferral Period shall bear Additional Interest to the extent permitted by applicable law, which shall accrue at the rate per annum at which interest accrues in respect of the principal of the Series A Debentures, compounded quarterly prior to the Stock Purchase Date, and semi-annually thereafter, from the applicable Interest Payment Date. Subject to the Company's right to defer interest payments as provided in the Indenture, such interest shall be payable, (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing August 15, 2005, and (2) after the Stock Purchase Date, if the Series A Debentures continue to bear cash interest, semi-annually in arrears on the Interest Payment Dates following six months and twelve months after the Stock Purchase Date and thereafter on the respective anniversaries thereof. Interest on this Series A Debenture shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest payable on this Series A Debenture on any Interest Payment Date will include interest for the immediately preceding Interest Period. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest payment, which shall be the first day of the month in which such interest payment is due. Any interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one or More Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Series A Debenture not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Series A Debentures may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Company will no longer be required to pay cash interest unless the Company elects prior to the Remarketing that following the Remarketing 17
the Series A Debentures will bear cash interest pursuant to the Indenture. From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Original Principal Amount of this Series A Debenture shall accrete daily at the Applicable Yield for each Interest Period, which shall be 0% during any period for which the Company has elected pursuant to the Indenture that the Series A Debentures will bear cash interest. If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date set for payment of the Redemption Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this Series A Debenture) or if interest due hereon (or any portion of such interest), is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate then borne by this Series A Debenture or, if any overdue amount exists on or after the Repurchase Settlement Date, at the Applicable Yield or Reset Yield or Reset Rate, if any, of this Series A Debenture for the applicable Interest Period, compounded at the end of such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable as set forth in the Indenture. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of the Redemption Price and at the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures to Holders who surrender Series A Debentures to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Series A Debentures; provided that if any Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Holder of record as of the applicable regular record date. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Series A Debentures. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date) falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business Day, but if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then that payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on that date. If the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date of this Series A Debenture would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue and no principal will accrete for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date to such next succeeding Business Day. No sinking fund is provided for the Series A Debentures. Prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date, the Series A Debentures shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company. If the Company so specifies in connection with the Remarketing, the Series A Debentures shall be redeemable on and after the date so specified by the Company for cash as a whole, or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount of the Series A Debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date. 18
If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Series A Debentures, the Trustee will select the Series A Debentures to be redeemed (i) by lot; (ii) pro rata; or (iii) by another method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. The Company may not redeem less than all of the outstanding Series A Debentures if the Accreted Principal Amount has been accelerated and such acceleration has not been rescinded. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Series A Debentures to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Series A Debentures (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue and principal will cease to accrete on such Series A Debentures or portions thereof. Series A Debentures in denominations larger than $1,000 Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000. If a Remarketing occurs, then the Series A Debentures shall be remarketed and the Reset Yield or Reset Rate, as the case may be, shall be established as set forth in the Indenture. If there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009, each Holder of Series A Debentures will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series A Debentures on such date, as set forth in the Indenture. The Company shall purchase such Series A Debentures at a Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a note of the Company, bearing interest at the rate of 4.82% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount of all of the Series A Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Series A Debentures; provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the Holder of each Series A Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Series A Debentures, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Series A Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Series A Debentures, to waive a default or 19
Event of Default with respect to the Series A Debentures, and its consequences, except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Series A Debentures or a default in respect of a provision that under Article IX of the Base Indenture cannot be amended without the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Series A Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Series A Debenture and of any Series A Debenture issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise) irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Series A Debenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series A Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Series A Debenture at the time and place and at the rate and in the money herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Series A Debenture is transferable by the registered Holder hereof on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Series A Debenture for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in The City of New York and State of New York accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Series A Debentures of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Series A Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and the Security Registrar may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof (whether or not this Series A Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Series A Debenture, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released. The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a 20
number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture. The Series A Debentures are issuable only in registered form without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Series A Debentures so issued are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Series A Debentures of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. All terms used in this Series A Debenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Series A Debenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws. 21
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Series A Debenture to: ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert address and zip code of assignee) agent to transfer this Series A Debenture on the books of the Security Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Dated: Signature: Signature Guarantee: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Series A Debenture) Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 22
ARTICLE V ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES A DEBENTURES Section 5.1 Original Issue of Series A Debentures. Series A Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1,067,010,000 may, upon execution of this First Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Series A Debentures in accordance with a Company Order. The Issue Date of the Series A Debentures shall be deemed to be June 21, 2005. ARTICLE VI EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE Section 6.1 Event of Default (a) An "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Series A Debentures, means any one or more of the following events that shall have occurred and be continuing: (i) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest (including Additional Interest) upon the Series A Debentures, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 20 consecutive quarters; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period for the Series A Debentures, failure to pay interest on the Series A Debentures shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of the Series A Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund establishment with respect to the Series A Debentures; or (iii) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of: (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (C) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company or MetLife Bank, National Association ("MetLife Bank") or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or MetLife Bank, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or of MetLife Bank; 23
(iv) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law; (A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (C) files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (E) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due. (b) If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.1(a)(iii) and 6.1(a)(iv) hereof) with respect to the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee or the Holders of no less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if by such Holders), may declare the Accreted Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Series A Debentures to be due and payable immediately, and upon such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. (c) At any time after the principal of the Series A Debentures shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Series A Debentures and the principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Series A Debentures that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at 4.82% per annum and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06 of the Base Indenture, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture, other than the nonpayment of Accreted Principal Amount on the Series A Debentures that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture. No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. (d) The Company shall, within 120 days of the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating, to the knowledge of the certifying Officer, as to whether any Event of Default as defined in the Indenture has occurred and is continuing. (e) If the Series A Debentures are held by the Trust or a trustee of the Trust, notwithstanding Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture or any other provision in this Indenture, any registered Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities shall have the right, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Sections 6.1(a)(i) and 6.1(a)(ii) hereof, to institute a suit directly, or to cause the Property Trustee to institute a suit against the Company for enforcement of payment to such Holder of the interest, subject to Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, on the 24
Series A Debentures; and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder, subject, however, to the provisions of Article XV of the Base Indenture and Article VII of this First Supplemental Indenture. ARTICLE VII SUBORDINATION Section 7.1 Subordination. The subordination provisions contained in Article XV of the Base Indenture shall apply to the Series A Debentures. For purposes of the Series A Debentures and application of Article XV of the Base Indenture to the Series A Debentures, "Senior Indebtedness" means any obligation of the Company to its creditors, whether outstanding at the date of the execution of this Supplemental Indenture or subsequently incurred, including the items enumerated in clauses(i)-(vii) of the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" in Section 1.01 of the Base Indenture, other than any obligation as to which, in the instrument creating or evidencing the obligation or pursuant to which the obligation is outstanding, it is provided that such obligation is not senior in right of payment to the Series A Debentures, but does not include trade accounts payable or any junior subordinated debt securities underlying Tier 1 eligible trust preferred securities issued in the future or other deeply subordinated capital instruments that the Federal Reserve Board may authorize in the future for inclusion as Tier 1 capital. The Series A Debentures shall rank equal with, and shall not be senior in right of payment to, the Company's 4.91% Junior Subordinated Securities, Series B, due 2040 to be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, to be dated the date hereof, and the Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreements to be dated the date hereof. Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination. The Company may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock Purchase Date, including in connection with a Remarketing, that its obligations under the Series A Debentures shall be senior obligations instead of subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions this Article VII and, if the Company so elects, Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, shall thereafter no longer apply to the Series A Debentures. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution. Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules. The Company shall not incur any additional indebtedness for borrowed money that ranks pari passu with or junior to the Series A Debentures (if then subject to this Article VII), except in compliance with applicable regulation and guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board. 25
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Effectiveness. This First Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery. Section 8.2 Further Assurances. The Company will, at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver any documents or agreements, and take any other actions, which the Trustee or its counsel may from time to time request in order to assure the Trustee of the benefits of the rights granted to the Trustee under the Indenture. Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals. The recitals in this First Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency hereof. Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture. The Base Indenture as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. Section 8.5 Governing Law. THE INDENTURE AND EACH SERIES A DEBENTURE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE. Section 8.6 Counterparts. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such separate counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 26
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgments and as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC. By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson -------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel -------------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signatory 27

EXHIBIT 4.8 ================================================================================ METLIFE, INC., ISSUER and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, TRUSTEE Second Supplemental Indenture Dated as of June 21, 2005 Supplement to the Indenture of MetLife, Inc. dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
Section 7.1 Subordination.......................................................... 23 Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination.................................. 23 Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules............................ 23 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Effectiveness.......................................................... 24 Section 8.2 Further Assurances..................................................... 24 Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals..................................................... 24 Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture......................................... 24 Section 8.5 Governing Law.......................................................... 24 Section 8.6 Counterparts........................................................... 24
ii
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005 (this "Second Supplemental Indenture"), to the Base Indenture (as defined below), dated as of the date hereof, between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture (as defined below), a national banking association (the "Trustee"). WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Base Indenture," and together with this Second Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"); and WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Base Indenture may be amended without the consent of any Holder (i) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of any series as provided in Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and (ii) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Base Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination does not apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of the amendment; WHEREAS, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 14.07 of the Base Indenture to the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to the Trustee's execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture have been complied with; WHEREAS, MetLife Capital Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), has offered to the public its Series B Trust Preferred Securities (the "Trust Preferred Securities"), representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust, and proposes to invest the proceeds from such offering, together with the proceeds of the issuance and sale by the Trust to the Company of its Common Securities (together with the Trust Preferred Securities, the "Trust Securities"), in the Series B Debentures; WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series B Debentures will be subject to Remarketing, in connection with which certain terms of the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series B Debentures may be changed, all in accordance with the procedures to be set forth in a Remarketing Agreement to be entered into among the Company, the Trust (in the event the Trust Preferred Securities are outstanding on any Remarketing Date), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Remarketing Agent; and WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Second Supplemental Indenture and satisfy all requirements necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Series B Debentures, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this Second Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects: NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee agree as follows: 1
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE Section 1.1 Definition of Terms. Unless the context otherwise requires: (a) a term defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in this Second Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified herein; (b) a term defined anywhere in this Second Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout; (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa; (d) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation; (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in the Trust Agreement: Administrative Trustee; Delaware Trustee; Distributions; Initial Liquidation Amount; Property Trustee; Record Date; Remarketing; Remarketing Agent; Remarketing Agreement; Remarketing Date; Remarketing Settlement Date; Trust Preferred Securities Certificate; Stock Purchase Contract Agent and Successful. (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.1(f): "Accreted Interest" means, for any Interest Period for any Series B Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Accreted Principal Amount of such Series B Debenture at the beginning of the Interest Period in which such date occurs, multiplied by (ii) the Applicable Yield for such Interest Period, multiplied by (iii) the quotient of the actual number of days elapsed from and including the first day of such Interest Period, to but excluding the date of determination divided by 360; provided that the Accreted Interest for any full Interest Period shall be calculated by reference to the actual number of days in such Interest Period divided by 360. "Accreted Principal Amount" means, for any Series B Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Original Principal Amount of such Series B Debenture, plus (ii) the sum of the Accreted Interest (if any) for each Interest Period concluding on or prior to such date, plus (iii) the Accreted Interest for the Interest Period in which such date occurs as of the date of determination. "Additional Interest" means the interest that shall accrue on any interest on the Series B Debentures the payment of which has not been made on the applicable Interest Payment Date. References herein to "interest" include Additional Interest unless the context otherwise requires. "Applicable Yield" means (1) prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date, 0%, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series B Debentures will 2
bear cash interest, from and after the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date, for any Interest Period, the Reset Yield for such Interest Period and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series B Debentures bear cash interest, 0%. "Collateral Agent" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Creditor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1. "Holder" means a Securityholder (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Series B Debentures. "Early Termination Event" means the dissolution of the Trust and the distribution of the Series B Debentures held by the Property Trustee to the holders of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust pro rata in accordance with the Trust Agreement. "Final Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Global Series B Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4. "Interest Period" means (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, the period from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or June 21, 2005 if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment) to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series B Debentures will bear cash interest from and after such Remarketing, the period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date to the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures, and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series B Debentures bear cash interest, the period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date or, if later, the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available, to but excluding the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, or, if earlier, then the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures. "Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4. "Normal Common Equity Units" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Original Principal Amount" of a Series B Debenture means the stated Original Principal Amount as set forth on the face of such Series B Debenture. "Reset Rate" means the rate of interest on the Series B Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company elected that the Series B Debentures would pay 3
interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances). "Reset Yield" means the yield to maturity on the Series B Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company did not elect that the Series B Debentures would pay interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances). "Series B Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means that certain agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Trust" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees and the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to the Trust. "Trust Securities" has the meaning provided in the recitals hereto. Section 1.2 Scope. The changes, modifications and supplements to the Base Indenture effected by this Second Supplemental Indenture shall only be applicable with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Series B Debentures and shall not apply to any other series of Securities that may be issued under the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other series of Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. ARTICLE II GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES B DEBENTURES Section 2.1 Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination. There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due 2040 (the "Series B Debentures"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,067,010,000, which amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Series B Debentures pursuant to the Indenture. The Series B Debentures shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and integral multiples thereof. 4
Section 2.2 Maturity. The Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will be February 15, 2040, subject to change as provided in Section 2.12. Section 2.3 Form and Payment. Except as provided in Section 2.4, the Series B Debentures shall be issued in fully registered definitive form without interest coupons. Principal of and interest on the Series B Debentures issued in definitive form will be payable, the transfer of such Series B Debentures will be registrable and such Series B Debentures will be exchangeable for Series B Debentures bearing identical terms and provisions at the office or agency of the Trustee; provided, however, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Holder at such address as shall appear in the Register or by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the bank account number of the Holder specified in writing by the Holder and entered in the Register by the Registrar. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Holder of any Series B Debenture is the Property Trustee, the payment of the principal of and interest (including expenses and taxes of the Trust set forth in Section 3.1 hereof, if any) on such Series B Debentures held by the Property Trustee will be made at such place and to such account as may be designated in writing by the Property Trustee. Section 2.4 Global Series B Debenture. (a) The Depository Trust Company shall serve as the initial Depositary for the Series B Debentures. (b) The Series B Debentures shall be issued initially in fully registered form in the name of the Property Trustee, in its capacity as such. In connection with an Early Termination Event, (i) the Series B Debentures in definitive form may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee for exchange for one or more Global Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) representing Series B Debentures in an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Original Principal Amount of all outstanding Series B Debentures (each a "Global Series B Debenture"), to be registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee, and delivered by the Property Trustee to the Depositary for crediting to the accounts of its participants pursuant to the instructions of the Administrative Trustees. The Company upon any such presentation shall execute one or more Global Series B Debentures in such aggregate Original Principal Amount and deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Global Series B Debentures, together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication, will authenticate such Global Series B Debentures. Payments on the Series B Debentures issued as Global Series B Debentures will be made to the Depositary; and (ii) if any Trust Preferred Securities are held in non book-entry definitive form, the Series B Debentures in certificated form may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee and any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate which represents Trust Preferred Securities other 5
than Trust Preferred Securities held by the Depositary or its nominee ("Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities") will be deemed to represent beneficial interests in the Series B Debentures presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee having an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of the Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities until such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are presented to the Property Trustee for transfer or reissuance, at which time such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates will be cancelled and a Series B Debenture, registered in the name of the Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or the transferee of the Holder of such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, as the case may be, with an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate cancelled, will be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture to such Holder. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Series B Debenture together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication, shall authenticate such Series B Debenture. On issue of such Series B Debentures, Series B Debentures with an equivalent aggregate Original Principal Amount that were presented by the Property Trustee to the Trustee will be deemed to have been cancelled. (c) Unless and until it is exchanged for the Series B Debentures in definitive form, a Global Series B Debenture may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only by the Depository or the nominee of the Depository to another nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary. (d) If after Global Series B Debentures are issued (a) at any time the Depositary for Global Series B Debentures notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Series B Debentures or if at any time the Depositary for such Global Series B Debentures shall no longer be a clearing agency registered or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or other applicable statute or regulation when the Depository is required to be so registered to act as the Depository, and in either case a successor Depositary for such Global Series B Debentures is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (b) the Company determines in its sole discretion that the Series B Debentures shall no longer be represented by one or more Global Series B Debentures and delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination, then the Company will execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver Series B Debentures of like tenor in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the Original Principal Amount of the Global Series B Debentures in exchange for such Global Series B Debentures. Upon the exchange of Global Series B Debentures for such Series B Debentures in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the Global Series B Debentures shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Series B Debentures in definitive registered form issued in exchange for Global Series B Debentures pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Series B Debentures to the Persons in whose names such Series B Debentures are so registered. 6
Section 2.5 Interest. (a) Each Series B Debenture will bear interest and, following the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest or Accreted Interest, as applicable, all as provided in the form of Series B Debentures set forth in Section 4.1 hereof. (b) The Company shall have the right to defer the payment of cash interest on the Series B Debentures, as provided in Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, for one or more Deferral Periods of not longer than five years each. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of its election to begin any such Deferral Period at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding date on which Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities would be payable but for such deferral, and (ii) the date on which the Property Trustee is required to give notice to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of the Record Date or the date such Distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five Business Days prior to such Record Date, provided, however, that in no event shall such notice of election be sent more than fifteen Business Days prior to the date on which payments of all amounts then due in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities are scheduled to occur. (c) The Series B Debentures are not entitled to any sinking fund payments. Section 2.6 Redemption of the Series B Debentures. (a) The Series B Debentures shall not be subject to the right of redemption specified in Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture. (b) If in connection with the Remarketing the Series B Debentures become redeemable at the option of the Company, any such redemption shall be effected in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture. Section 2.7 Put Right of Holders. If a there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009, each Holder of Series B Debentures will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series B Debentures on such date as described below. Such right will be exercisable only upon delivery of notice to the Trustee (i) for as long as the Series B Debentures are held by the Property Trustee, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately prior to February 15, 2009, or (ii) in all other cases, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the second Business Day prior to February 15, 2009. The Company shall purchase such Series B Debentures at a Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a junior subordinated note of the Company (which shall be subordinated and rank junior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future Senior Indebtedness), bearing interest at the rate of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Settlement of such purchase shall be effected on February 15, 2009. Subject to the foregoing, any such purchase by the Company shall be effected in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture. 7
Section 2.8 Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of Interest. If there shall have occurred and be continuing any event that, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would be an Event of Default with respect to the Series B Debentures of which the Company shall have actual knowledge and which the Company shall not have taken reasonable steps to cure; the Series B Debentures shall be held by the Trust and the Company shall be in default with respect to its payment of any obligations under the Guarantee; or the Company shall have given notice of its election to begin a Deferral Period with respect to the Series B Debentures as provided herein and shall not have rescinded such notice, and such Deferral Period, or any extension thereof, shall be continuing, then the Company covenants and agrees with the Holders that it shall not: (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of capital stock of the Company other than (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (y) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the case may be; (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company's subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of capital stock of the Company; (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto; (v) payments by the Company under any Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities; or (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock; (b) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Company that rank equal with or junior to the Series B Debentures; or 8
(c) make any payment under any guarantee that ranks equally with or junior to the Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 2.9 Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration. (a) The Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities such notices as it shall from time to time provide under Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities notice of any Event of Default or event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Series B Debentures within 30 days after such Event of Default or other event becomes known to the Trustee. (b) Upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity of the Series B Debentures pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture, the Accreted Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all Series B Debentures shall become due and payable immediately. Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers. The Company may from time to time obtain CUSIP numbers for the Series B Debentures and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Series B Debentures or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only the other identification numbers printed on the Series B Debentures, and no action shall be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent. The Company initially appoints the Trustee as the Security Registrar and Paying Agent for the Series B Debentures. Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing. In connection with Remarketings, the Company shall have the right hereunder to change certain terms of the Series B Debentures as provided below in this Section 2.12. By not later than the 25th Business Day prior to each Remarketing Date, the Company will specify the following information or elections in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraph (a) through (e) applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing): (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Series B Debentures will pay interest in cash (it being understood and agreed that, unless the Company affirmatively elects to cause the Series B Debentures to pay interest in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will not be paid in cash but, instead, will accrete as provided in the Series B Debentures); 9
(b) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will remain at February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); provided, however, that the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (c) whether the Series B Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's option on a day prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures and, if so, the date on and after which the Series B Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, that an early redemption date may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (d) whether the Company elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add any additional financial covenants to the Indenture, including the form of supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to any such additional financial covenants; (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Company is exercising its right under Section 6.2 of this Second Supplemental Indenture to cause the subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Series B Debentures to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing Settlement Date; and if so, whether it also elects that the Series B Debentures shall no longer be subject to the interest deferral provisions of Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture; and (f) if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing: (i) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will remain at February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); and (ii) whether the Series B Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's option on a date prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures and, if so, the date on and after which the Series B Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, any changed Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Prior to an Early Termination Event, any such elections made by the Company as Sponsor pursuant to the Trust Agreement shall, upon successful completion of a Remarketing, automatically apply and come into effect in respect of the Series B Debentures. In the event of an Early Termination Event, the provisions of Article X of the Trust Agreement shall be deemed thereafter to apply, mutatis mutandis, to any Remarketing of the Series B Debentures, and the Company and the Trustee shall promptly enter into a supplemental indenture, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, making provision for remarketing and reset mechanics, including notices in respect thereof, on the basis set forth in such Article X. 10
ARTICLE III EXPENSES Section 3.1 Expenses. In connection with the offering, sale and issuance of the Series B Debentures to the Property Trustee and in connection with the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust, the Company, in its capacity as borrower with respect to the Series B Debentures, shall: (a) pay all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance of the Series B Debentures, including commissions to the underwriters payable pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and compensation, fees and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Trustee under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture; and (b) be responsible for and shall pay all debts and obligations and all costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, costs and expenses relating to the organization, maintenance and dissolution of the Trust), the offering, sale and issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities (including commissions to the underwriters in connection therewith), the fees and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees, the costs and expenses relating to the operation of the Trust, including, without limitation, costs and expenses of accountants, attorneys, statistical or bookkeeping services, expenses for printing and engraving and computing or accounting equipment, paying agent(s), registrar(s), transfer agent(s), duplicating, travel and telephone and other telecommunications expenses and costs and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, financing, and disposition of Trust assets and the enforcement by the Property Trustee of the rights of the Holders of the Series B Debentures. The Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 shall be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, any person to whom such debts, obligations and costs are owed (a "Creditor") whether or not such Creditor has received notice hereof. Any such Creditor may enforce the Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 directly against the Company and the Company irrevocably waives any right or remedy to require that any such Creditor take any action against the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Company. The Company agrees to execute such additional agreements as may be necessary or desirable in order to give full effect to the provisions of this Section 3.1. ARTICLE IV FORM OF SERIES B DEBENTURES Section 4.1 Form of Series B Debentures. The Series B Debentures and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the following forms: 11
[IF THE SERIES B DEBENTURE IS TO BE A GLOBAL SERIES B DEBENTURE, INSERT - This Series B Debenture is a Global Series B Debenture within the meaning of the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof) and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Series B Debenture is exchangeable for Series B Debentures registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Series B Debenture (other than a transfer of this Series B Debenture as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary) may be registered except in limited circumstances. Unless this Series B Debenture is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Series B Debenture issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.] 12
THE SERIES B DEBENTURES ARE THE UNSECURED AND UNSUBORDINATED OBLIGATIONS OF METLIFE, INC. AND ARE NOT DEPOSITS, SAVINGS ACCOUNTS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF ANY BANK OR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION. THE SERIES B DEBENTURES ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY OR INSURER. 13
No. ____________________ Original Principal Amount: $____ Issue Date: June 21, 2005 CUSIP No.: _____________________ ISIN: __________________________ METLIFE, INC. 4.91% JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBT SECURITIES, SERIES B, DUE 2040 METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof)) for value received, hereby promises to pay to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, AS PROPERTY TRUSTEE, the Accreted Principal Amount (as defined in the Indenture) on February 15, 2040 or such earlier date as may be specified by the Company following a Remarketing (as defined in the Indenture) (such date is hereinafter referred to as the "Stated Maturity Date"). This Series B Debenture shall bear interest and Accreted Interest (as defined in the Indenture) as specified on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture. This Series B Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee. The provisions of this Series B Debenture are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed. Dated: METLIFE, INC. By:_________________________________ Name: Title: Attest By: ________________________ Name: Title: 14
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Series B Debentures referred to in the Indenture. Dated: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ________________________________ Authorized Signatory 15
(FORM OF REVERSE OF SERIES B DEBENTURE) This Series B Debenture is one of a duly authorized series (the "Series B Debentures") of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company, issued under and pursuant to a Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Series B Debentures. By the terms of the Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This Series B Debenture will bear interest from June 21, 2005 or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate per annum equal to 4.91%, subject to reset as set forth below; in addition, each installment of interest that would otherwise have been due and payable during any Deferral Period shall bear Additional Interest to the extent permitted by applicable law, which shall accrue at the rate per annum at which interest accrues in respect of the principal of the Series B Debentures, compounded quarterly prior to the Stock Purchase Date, and semi-annually thereafter, from the applicable Interest Payment Date. Subject to the Company's right to defer interest payments as provided in the Indenture, such interest shall be payable, (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing August 15, 2005, and (2) after the Stock Purchase Date, if the Series B Debentures continue to bear cash interest, semi-annually in arrears on the Interest Payment Dates following six months and twelve months after the Stock Purchase Date and thereafter on the respective anniversaries thereof. Interest on this Series B Debenture shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest payable on this Series B Debenture on any Interest Payment Date will include interest for the immediately preceding Interest Period. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Series B Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Series B Debenture) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest payment, which shall be the first day of the month in which such interest payment is due. Any interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Series B Debenture (or one or More Predecessor Series B Debenture) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Series B Debenture not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Series B Debentures may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Company will no longer be required to pay cash interest unless the Company elects prior to the Remarketing that following the Remarketing 16
the Series B Debentures will bear cash interest pursuant to the Indenture. From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Original Principal Amount of this Series B Debenture shall accrete daily at the Applicable Yield for each Interest Period, which shall be 0% during any period for which the Company has elected pursuant to the Indenture that the Series B Debentures will bear cash interest. If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date set for payment of the Redemption Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this Series B Debenture) or if interest due hereon (or any portion of such interest), is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate then borne by this Series B Debenture or, if any overdue amount exists on or after the Repurchase Settlement Date, at the Applicable Yield or Reset Yield or Reset Rate, if any, of this Series B Debenture for the applicable Interest Period, compounded at the end of such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable as set forth in the Indenture. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of the Redemption Price and at the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures to Holders who surrender Series B Debentures to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Series B Debentures; provided that if any Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Holder of record as of the applicable regular record date. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Series B Debentures. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date) falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business Day, but if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then that payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on that date. If the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date of this Series B Debenture would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue and no principal will accrete for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date to such next succeeding Business Day. No sinking fund is provided for the Series B Debentures. Prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date, the Series B Debentures shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company. If the Company so specifies in connection with the Remarketing, the Series B Debentures shall be redeemable on and after the date so specified by the Company for cash as a whole, or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount of the Series B Debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date. 17
If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Series B Debentures, the Trustee will select the Series B Debentures to be redeemed (i) by lot; (ii) pro rata; or (iii) by another method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. The Company may not redeem less than all of the outstanding Series B Debentures if the Accreted Principal Amount has been accelerated and such acceleration has not been rescinded. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Series B Debentures to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Series B Debentures (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue and principal will cease to accrete on such Series B Debentures or portions thereof. Series B Debentures in denominations larger than $1,000 Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000. If a Remarketing occurs, then the Series B Debentures shall be remarketed and the Reset Yield or Reset Rate, as the case may be, shall be established as set forth in the Indenture. If there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009, each Holder of Series B Debentures will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series B Debentures on such date, as set forth in the Indenture. The Company shall purchase such Series B Debentures at a Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a note of the Company, bearing interest at the rate of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount of all of the Series B Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series B Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Series B Debentures; provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the Holder of each Series B Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Series B Debentures, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Series B Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series B Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Series B Debentures, to waive a default or 18
Event of Default with respect to the Series B Debentures, and its consequences, except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Series B Debentures or a default in respect of a provision that under Article IX of the Base Indenture cannot be amended without the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Series B Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Series B Debenture and of any Series B Debenture issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise) irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Series B Debenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series B Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Series B Debenture at the time and place and at the rate and in the money herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Series B Debenture is transferable by the registered Holder hereof on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Series B Debenture for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in The City of New York and State of New York accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Series B Debentures of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Series B Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and the Security Registrar may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof (whether or not this Series B Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Series B Debenture, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released. The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a 19
number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture. The Series B Debentures are issuable only in registered form without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Series B Debentures so issued are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Series B Debentures of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. All terms used in this Series B Debenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Series B Debenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws. 20
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Series B Debenture to: ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert address and zip code of assignee) agent to transfer this Series B Debenture on the books of the Security Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Dated: Signature: Signature Guarantee: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Series B Debenture) Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 21
ARTICLE V ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES B DEBENTURES Section 5.1 Original Issue of Series B Debentures. Series B Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1,067,010,000 may, upon execution of this Second Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Series B Debentures in accordance with a Company Order. The Issue Date of the Series B Debentures shall be deemed to be June 21, 2005. ARTICLE VI EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE Section 6.1 Event of Default (a) An "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Series B Debentures, means any one or more of the following events that shall have occurred and be continuing: (i) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest (including Additional Interest) upon the Series B Debentures, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 20 consecutive quarters; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period for the Series B Debentures, failure to pay interest on the Series B Debentures shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of the Series B Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund establishment with respect to the Series B Debentures; or (iii) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of: (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (C) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company or MetLife Bank, National Association ("MetLife Bank") or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or MetLife Bank, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or of MetLife Bank; 22
(iv) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law; (A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (C) files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (E) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due. (b) If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.1(a)(iii) and 6.1(a)(iv) hereof) with respect to the Series B Debentures at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee or the Holders of no less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Series B Debentures then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if by such Holders), may declare the Accreted Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Series B Debentures to be due and payable immediately, and upon such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. (c) At any time after the principal of the Series B Debentures shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series B Debentures then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Series B Debentures and the principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Series B Debentures that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at 4.91% per annum and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06 of the Base Indenture, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture, other than the nonpayment of Accreted Principal Amount on the Series B Debentures that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture. No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. (d) The Company shall, within 120 days of the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating, to the knowledge of the certifying Officer, as to whether any Event of Default as defined in the Indenture has occurred and is continuing. (e) If the Series B Debentures are held by the Trust or a trustee of the Trust, notwithstanding Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture or any other provision in this Indenture, any registered Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities shall have the right, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Sections 6.1(a)(i) and 6.1(a)(ii) hereof, to institute a suit directly, or to cause the Property Trustee to institute a suit against the Company for enforcement of payment to such Holder of the interest, subject to Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, on the 23
Series B Debentures; and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder, subject, however, to the provisions of Article XV of the Base Indenture and Article VII of this Second Supplemental Indenture. ARTICLE VII SUBORDINATION Section 7.1 Subordination. The subordination provisions contained in Article XV of the Base Indenture shall apply to the Series B Debentures. For purposes of the Series B Debentures and application of Article XV of the Base Indenture to the Series B Debentures, "Senior Indebtedness" means any obligation of the Company to its creditors, whether outstanding at the date of the execution of this Supplemental Indenture or subsequently incurred, including the items enumerated in clauses(i)-(vii) of the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" in Section 1.01 of the Base Indenture, other than any obligation as to which, in the instrument creating or evidencing the obligation or pursuant to which the obligation is outstanding, it is provided that such obligation is not senior in right of payment to the Series B Debentures, but does not include trade accounts payable or any junior subordinated debt securities underlying Tier 1 eligible trust preferred securities issued in the future or other deeply subordinated capital instruments that the Federal Reserve Board may authorize in the future for inclusion as Tier 1 capital. The Series B Debentures shall rank equal with, and shall not be senior in right of payment to, the Company's 4.91% Junior Subordinated Securities, Series B, due 2040 to be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, to be dated the date hereof, and the Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreements to be dated the date hereof. Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination. The Company may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock Purchase Date, including in connection with a Remarketing, that its obligations under the Series B Debentures shall be senior obligations instead of subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions this Article VII and, if the Company so elects, Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, shall thereafter no longer apply to the Series B Debentures. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution. Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules. The Company shall not incur any additional indebtedness for borrowed money that ranks pari passu with or junior to the Series B Debentures (if then subject to this Article VII), except in compliance with applicable regulation and guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board. 24
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Effectiveness. This Second Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery. Section 8.2 Further Assurances. The Company will, at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver any documents or agreements, and take any other actions, which the Trustee or its counsel may from time to time request in order to assure the Trustee of the benefits of the rights granted to the Trustee under the Indenture. Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals. The recitals in this Second Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency hereof. Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture. The Base Indenture as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. Section 8.5 Governing Law. THE INDENTURE AND EACH SERIES B DEBENTURE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE. Section 8.6 Counterparts. This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such separate counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgments and as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC. By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson -------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel -------------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signatory 26

EXHIBIT 4.16 ================================================================================ AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST OF METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II among METLIFE, INC., as Sponsor, J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee, CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees (as named herein), and the several Holders of the Trust Securities Dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
EXECUTION COPY METLIFE, INC. Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of June 21, 2005 Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be part of the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust. i
TABLE OF CONTENTS ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) iv
EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Certificate of Amendment and Certificate of Trust Exhibit B - Form of Common Securities Certificate Exhibit C - Form of Trust Preferred Securities Certificate v
AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST (the "Trust Agreement"), dated as of June 21, 2005 among (i) MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (including any successors or assigns, the "Sponsor"), (ii) J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as property trustee (in such capacity, the "Property Trustee"), (iii) Chase Bank USA, National Association, a national banking association, as Delaware trustee (in such capacity, the "Delaware Trustee"), and (iv) Anthony J. Williamson, an individual, Philip Salmon, an individual and Thomas Curran, an individual, each of whose address is c/o MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza North, Long Island City, New York 11101 (each, an "Administrative Trustee," and collectively, the "Administrative Trustees") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees being referred to collectively as the "Trustees"), and (v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined. WITNESSETH WHEREAS, the Sponsor and certain of the Trustees have heretofore duly declared and established a statutory trust (the "Trust") pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (as hereinafter defined) by entering into that certain Declaration of Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001 (the "Original Declaration of Trust"), and by the execution and filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Certificate of Trust, filed on May 17, 2001, as amended, attached as Exhibit A hereto (the "Certificate of Trust"); and WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and new trustees were appointed pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of January 16, 2004; WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and new trustees were appointed pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of June 15, 2005; WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original Declaration of Trust in its entirety as set forth herein to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities by the Trust to the Sponsor, (ii) the issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust as a component of Normal Common Equity Units and their issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, and (iii) the acquisition by the Trust from the Sponsor of all of the right, title and interest in the Debentures; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the other parties and for the benefit of the Holders, hereby amends and restates the Original Declaration of Trust in its entirety and agrees as follows: 1
ARTICLE I DEFINED TERMS SECTION 1.1. Definitions. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular; All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein; The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation"; All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles; Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a "Section" or an "Exhibit" refers to an Article, a Section or an Exhibit, as the case may be, of or to this Trust Agreement; and The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Trust Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Accreted Liquidation Amount" means per Trust Security (i) through the Reset Date, $1,000 (which is also the Initial Liquidation Amount per Trust Security) and (ii) thereafter, an amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount of a Like Amount of Debentures as determined pursuant to the Indenture (changing as and when such Accreted Principal Amount shall change). "Accreted Principal Amount" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture. "Act" has the meaning specified in Section 6.8. "Additional Amount" means, with respect to Trust Securities of a given Initial Liquidation Amount and/or a given period, the amount of Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) paid by the Sponsor on a Like Amount of Debentures for such period. "Additional Interest" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture. "Administrative Trustee" means each of the individuals identified as an "Administrative Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement solely in such individual's capacity as Administrative Trustee of the Trust and not in such individual's individual capacity, or such Administrative Trustee's successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein provided. 2
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities" means the Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Trust and the Sponsor. "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such Person or any Person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors of such Person. "Bankruptcy Event" means, with respect to any Person: (a) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises judging such Person a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjudication or composition of or in respect of such Person under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (b) the institution by such Person of proceedings to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due and its willingness to be adjudicated a bankrupt, or the taking of corporate action by such Person in furtherance of any such action. "Bankruptcy Laws" has the meaning specified in Section 12.9. "Base Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee. "Board of Directors" of any Person means the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person, or, in the case of a limited liability company issuer of Debentures, the sole member, or a committee designated by the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person (or any such committee), comprised of one or more members of the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person or officers of such Person, or both. 3
"Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities, the ownership and transfers of which shall be made through book entries by a Clearing Agency as described in Section 5.11. "Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate evidencing ownership of Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York City are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. "Certificate of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof, as amended from time to time. "Certificate Depository Agreement" means the agreement among the Trust, the Paying Agent and DTC, as the initial Clearing Agency, dated as of the Closing Date. "Clearing Agency" means an organization registered as a "clearing agency" pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act. DTC will be the initial Clearing Agency. "Clearing Agency Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing Agency effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Clearing Agency. "Closing Date" means the "Closing Date" under the Underwriting Agreement. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act or, if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Common Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of Common Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B. "Common Security" means an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, having an Initial Liquidation Amount of $1,000 and having the rights provided therefor in this Trust Agreement, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein. "Common Stock" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. 4
"Corporate Trust Office" means (i) when used with respect to the Property Trustee, the office of the Property Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004, and (ii) when used with respect to the Debenture Trustee, the office of the Debenture Trustee located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004. "Debenture Event of Default" means any "Event of Default" specified in Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture. "Debenture Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Debentures to be redeemed under the Indenture, the date fixed for redemption of such Debentures under the Indenture. "Debentures" means the $927.8 million initial aggregate principal amount of the Sponsor's Series A junior subordinated debt securities, due 2039 issued pursuant to the Indenture (which amount may be increased to $1,067.0 million in connection with the exercise under the Underwriting Agreement by the underwriters named therein of their option to buy additional Common Equity Units). "Debenture Stated Date" means February 15, 2039, unless such date is changed to an earlier date pursuant to Article X. "Debenture Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as provided in the Indenture. "Deferral Period" has the meaning specified in the Indenture. "Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates" means either or both (as the context requires) of (i) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued as Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as provided in Section 5.11, and (ii) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued in certificated, fully registered form as provided in Section 5.13. "Delaware Statutory Trust Act" means Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware Code, 12 Del. C. ss. 3801 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. "Delaware Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Delaware Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Delaware Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor Delaware trustee appointed as herein provided. "Distribution Date" has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(iii). "Distribution Period" means each period of time beginning on a Distribution Date (or the Closing Date in the case of the initial Distribution Period) and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date. 5
"Distribution Rate" means (i) from the Closing Date to but not including the earlier of (A) the Reset Date and (B) the Scheduled Redemption Date, 4.82% per annum and (ii) for each Distribution Period commencing on or after the Reset Date, the Reset Rate as determined in accordance with Article X. "Distributions" means amounts payable in respect of the Trust Securities as provided in Section 4.1. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Early Dissolution Event" has the meaning specified in Section 9.2. "Event of Default" means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such event and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): (a) the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default; or (b) default by the Trust in the payment of any Distribution when it becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30 days; or (c) default by the Trust in the payment of any Redemption Price of any Trust Security when it becomes due and payable; or (d) default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of any covenant or warranty of the Trustees in this Trust Agreement (other than those specified in clause (b) or (c) above) and continuation of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Trustees and to the Sponsor by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (e) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to the Property Trustee if a successor Property Trustee has not been appointed within 90 days thereof. "Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a Remarketing, for each Trust Preferred Security being remarketed an amount equal to the amount, if any, by which the proceeds of the Remarketing, net of the Remarketing Agent's Fee, exceed the Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1. "Failed Remarketing" means a Remarketing that is not Successful. 6
"Federal Reserve" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as from time to time constituted, or if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement the Federal Reserve is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Final Failed Remarketing" means the Remarketing on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date in respect of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, if such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing. "Guarantee" means the Guarantee Agreement executed and delivered by the Sponsor and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as guarantee trustee, contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, for the benefit of the holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, as amended from time to time. "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Trust Security or Trust Securities are registered in the Securities Register; any such Person shall be deemed to be a beneficial owner within the meaning of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. "Indenture" means the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, taken together. "Initial Liquidation Amount" means the stated amount of $1,000 per Trust Security. "Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940, or any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Lien" means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, deed of trust, adverse ownership interest, hypothecation, assignment, security interest or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever. "Like Amount" means (a) with respect to a redemption of any Trust Securities, Trust Securities having an Accreted Liquidation Amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount of Debentures to be contemporaneously redeemed in accordance with the Indenture, the proceeds of which will be used to pay the Redemption Price of such Trust Securities, (b) with respect to a distribution of Debentures to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution or liquidation of the Trust, Debentures having an Accreted Principal Amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities of the Holder to whom such Debentures are distributed, and (c) with respect to any distribution of Additional Amounts to Holders of Trust Securities, Debentures having an Accreted Principal Amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities in respect of which such distribution is made. "Liquidation Date" means the date of the dissolution, winding-up or dissolution of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4. "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in Section 9.4(d). "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities" or "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Common Securities" means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, Trust Preferred Securities or Common Securities, as the 7
case may be, representing more than 50% of the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of all then Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities or Common Securities, as the case may be. "Normal Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by any two Authorized Officers of such Person. Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Trust Agreement shall include: (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto; (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by such officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate; (c) a statement that such officer has made such examination or investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor, who shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Relevant Trustee. "Original Declaration of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Trust Agreement. "Outstanding," when used with respect to Trust Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Trust Securities theretofore executed and delivered under this Trust Agreement, except: (a) Trust Securities theretofore canceled by the Property Trustee or delivered to the Property Trustee for cancellation; (b) Trust Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Property Trustee or any Paying Agent; provided that, if such Trust Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Trust Agreement; and (c) Trust Securities that have been paid or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Trust Preferred Securities have been executed and delivered pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.5 and 5.11; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Accreted 8
Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Trust Preferred Securities owned by the Sponsor, any Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Sponsor or any Trustee shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that (a) in determining whether any Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Trust Preferred Securities that such Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded, and (b) the foregoing shall not apply at any time when all of the outstanding Trust Preferred Securities are owned by the Sponsor, one or more of the Trustees, and/or any such Affiliate. Trust Preferred Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrative Trustees the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Trust Preferred Securities and that the pledgee is not the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Trust Preferred Securities that are a component of Normal Common Equity Units and pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreement shall not be deemed to be not Outstanding only by reason of such pledge. "Owner" means each Person who is the beneficial owner of Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities as reflected in the records of the Clearing Agency or, if a Clearing Agency Participant is not the Owner, then as reflected in the records of a Person maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or indirectly, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency). "Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a Remarketing, an amount for each Trust Preferred Securities being remarketed equal to 100% of its Accreted Liquidation Amount. "Paying Agent" means any paying agent or co-paying agent appointed pursuant to Section 5.9 and shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. "Payment Account" means a segregated non-interest-bearing corporate trust account maintained by the Property Trustee (in its corporate capacity and not as Property Trustee) in its trust department for the benefit of the Holders in which all amounts paid in respect of the Debentures will be held and from which the Property Trustee, through the Paying Agent, shall make payments to the Holders in accordance with Sections 4.1 and 4.2. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature. "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Sponsor, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders (as defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement) of the Stock Purchase Contracts, as amended or supplemented from time to time. 9
"Property Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Property Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Property Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor property trustee appointed as herein provided. "Put Consideration" has the meaning specified in Section 10.5(a). "Put Right" has the meaning specified in Section 10.05(a). "Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Trust Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Trust Agreement; provided that each Debenture Redemption Date and the stated maturity of the Debentures shall be a Redemption Date for a Like Amount of Trust Securities. "Redemption Price" means, with respect to any Trust Security, the Accreted Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security, plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions to the Redemption Date, plus the related amount of the premium, if any, paid by the Sponsor upon the concurrent redemption of a Like Amount of Debentures. "Relevant Trustee" shall have the meaning specified in Section 8.10. "Remarketing" means a remarketing of Trust Preferred Securities pursuant to Article X and the related Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agent" means, as to a Remarketing and related Remarketing Agreement, the remarketing agent and any successor or replacement remarketing agent appointed by the Sponsor and the Trust pursuant to Section 10.1. "Remarketing Agent's Fee" means, as to the Remarketing Agent and a Remarketing, the fee provided for in the related Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agreement" means, with respect to a Remarketing, the remarketing agreement entered into among the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 10.1 with respect to such Remarketing of Trust Preferred Securities. "Remarketing Date" means, as to a Remarketing Settlement Date, the third Business Day immediately preceding such Remarketing Settlement Date. "Remarketing Purchase Date" means a Reset Date on which the Trust is required to purchase the Trust Preferred Securities, subject to and in accordance with Section 10.5. "Remarketing Settlement Date" means, on any date prior to the occurrence of a Successful Remarketing, the first to occur thereafter of August 15, 2008, November 15, 2008, and February 15, 2009. "Reset Cap", as of any Remarketing Settlement Date, means the prevailing market yield, as determined by the Remarketing Agent, of the benchmark U.S. treasury security having a remaining maturity that most closely corresponds to the period from such date until the 10
Scheduled Redemption Date (after giving effect to any change in the Scheduled Redemption Date being made pursuant to Article X on the Remarketing Settlement Date if the Remarketing is Successful), plus 350 basis points per annum. "Reset Date" means the first date that is a Remarketing Settlement Date on which a Successful Remarketing occurs. "Reset Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(a). "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to any Trustee, the President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer of such Trustee or any other officer of such Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of or familiarity with the particular subject. "Scheduled Redemption Date" means August 15, 2039 or, if such date is changed to an earlier date in accordance with Article X, such earlier date. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Securities Intermediary" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Agreement. "Securities Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 5.4. "Separate Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units. "Sponsor" has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Trust Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as stock purchase contract agent and any successor thereto as stock purchase contract agent, under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Sponsor and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as amended or supplemented from time to time. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. 11
"Stripped Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Successful" means, as to a Remarketing, that the Remarketing is conducted in accordance with Article X and the Remarketing Agent finds buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Remarketing Date. "Supplemental Indenture" means the First Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee. "Time of Delivery" means June 21, 2005. "Trust" means the Delaware statutory trust known as "MetLife Capital Trust II" which was created under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to the Original Declaration of Trust and the filing of the Certificate of Trust, and continued pursuant to this Trust Agreement. "Trust Agreement" means this Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, including (i) all exhibits, and (ii) for all purposes of this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, respectively. "Trustees" means, collectively, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in force at the date as of which this Trust Agreement was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended. "Trust Preferred Securities" means the series of securities known as the "Series A Trust Preferred Securities" of the Trust. "Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of Trust Preferred Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C. "Trust Property" means (a) the Debentures, (b) any cash on deposit in, or owing to, the Payment Account, and (c) all proceeds and rights in respect of the foregoing and any other property and assets for the time being held or deemed to be held by the Property Trustee pursuant to the trusts of this Trust Agreement. "Trust Security" means any one of the Common Securities or the Trust Preferred Securities. "Trust Securities Certificate" means any one of the Common Securities Certificates or the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. 12
"Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement dated June 15, 2005, among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust III and the several underwriters named in Schedule I (the "Underwriters") to the Pricing Agreement dated June 15, 2005 among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust III and the Underwriters. "Vice President," when used with respect to the Sponsor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president." ARTICLE II CONTINUATION OF THE TRUST SECTION 2.1. Name. The trust continued hereby shall be known as "MetLife Capital Trust II" as such name may be modified from time to time by the Administrative Trustees following written notice to the Holders and the other Trustees, in which name the Administrative Trustees and the other Trustees may conduct the business of the Trust, make and execute contracts and other instruments on behalf of the Trust and sue and be sued on behalf of the Trust. SECTION 2.2. Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business. The address of the Delaware Trustee in the State of Delaware is c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE 19713, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other address in the State of Delaware as the Delaware Trustee may designate by written notice to the Sponsor, the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. The principal executive office of the Trust is c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention: Institutional Trust Services. SECTION 2.3. Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Organizational Expenses. The Trustees acknowledge receipt from the Sponsor in connection with the Original Declaration of Trust of the sum of $10, which constituted the initial Trust Property. The Sponsor shall pay organizational expenses of the Trust as they arise or shall, upon request of any Trustee, promptly reimburse such Trustee for any such expenses paid by such Trustee. The Sponsor shall not make any claim upon the Trust Property for the payment of such expenses. SECTION 2.4. Issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities. On June 15, 2005, the Sponsor, on behalf of the Trust, executed and delivered the Underwriting Agreement. Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, in connection with the execution and delivery on such date of 82,800,000 Normal Common Equity Units to the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Securities Intermediary a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with the form of assignment attached thereto executed in blank, in an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of $1,035,000,000, against payment of 13
$1,035,000,000 as the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which funds such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee or its designee. SECTION 2.5. Issuance of the Common Securities; Subscription and Purchase Debentures. Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Sponsor a Common Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the Sponsor, evidencing 32,100 Common Securities having an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of $32,100,000 against payment by the Sponsor of the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which amount such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee or its designee. Contemporaneously therewith, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall subscribe to and purchase from the Sponsor the Debentures registered in the name of the Trust and having an aggregate initial principal amount equal to $1,067,010,000 and shall deliver to the Sponsor the purchase price therefor (being the sum of the amounts delivered to the Property Trustee pursuant to (i) the second sentence of Section 2.4 and (ii) the first sentence of this Section 2.5). SECTION 2.6. Trust Agreement. The exclusive purposes and functions of the Trust are (a) to issue and sell Trust Securities, (b) to use the proceeds from such sale to acquire the Debentures, and (c) to engage in those activities necessary or incidental thereto. The Sponsor hereby appoints the Trustees as trustees of the Trust, to have all the rights, powers and duties to the extent set forth herein, and the Trustees hereby accept such appointment. The Property Trustee hereby declares that it will hold the Trust Property upon and subject to the conditions set forth herein for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders. The Administrative Trustees shall have all rights, powers and duties set forth herein and in accordance with applicable law with respect to accomplishing the purposes of the Trust. The Delaware Trustee shall be one of the trustees of the Trust for the sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807(a) of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and for taking such actions as are required to be taken by a Delaware trustee under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 2.7. Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions. (a) The Trustees shall conduct the affairs of the Trust in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement. Subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, and in accordance with the following provisions (i) and (ii), the Trustees shall have the authority to enter into all transactions and agreements determined by the Trustees to be appropriate in exercising the authority, express or implied, otherwise granted to the Trustees under this Trust Agreement, and to perform all acts in furtherance thereof, including the following: (i) As among the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees, and each of them, shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: 14
(A) the issuance and sale of the Trust Securities; (B) to cause the Trust to enter into, and to execute, deliver and perform on behalf of the Trust the common securities purchase agreement, the Certificate Depository Agreement and such other agreements as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the purposes and function of the Trust; (C) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under Remarketing Agreements entered into pursuant to Article X and, except as otherwise expressly provided in Article X, cause the Trust to take such actions with respect to Remarketings as are provided for in Article X or as may be necessary or, as determined by the Administrative Trustees, useful in connection with Remarketings; (D) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities; (E) assisting in the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities under the Securities Act and under state securities or blue sky laws, and the qualification of this Trust Agreement under the Trust Indenture Act; (F) assisting in the listing of the Trust Preferred Securities upon such securities exchange or exchanges, if any, as shall be determined by the Sponsor, with the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities under the Exchange Act, if required, and with the preparation and filing of all periodic and other reports and other documents pursuant to the foregoing; (G) assisting in the sending of notices (other than notices of default) and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (H) the appointment of a Paying Agent and Securities Registrar in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (I) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust and the execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware; (J) execution of the Trust Securities on behalf of the Trust in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (K) execution and delivery of closing certificates, if any, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and any Remarketing Agreement and application for a taxpayer identification number for the Trust; (L) unless otherwise required by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the Trust Indenture Act or other applicable law, to execute on behalf of the Trust (either acting alone or together with any or all of the Administrative Trustees) any documents that the Administrative Trustees have the power to execute pursuant to this Trust Agreement; 15
(M) the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as the Trustees may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement; and (N) the preparation, execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. (ii) As among the Trustees, the Property Trustee shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: (A) the establishment of the Payment Account; (B) the receipt of the Debentures; (C) to authenticate the Trust Securities Certificates; (D) the collection of interest, principal and any other payments or instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) made in respect of the Debentures and the holding of such amounts in the Payment Account; (E) the distribution through the Paying Agent of amounts or property or instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) distributable to the Holders in respect of the Trust Securities; (F) the exercise of all of the rights, powers and privileges of a holder of the Debentures; (G) the sending of notices of default and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (H) the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement; (I) acting as Paying Agent and/or Security Registrar to the extent appointed under this Trust Agreement; (J) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust; and (K) after an Event of Default (other than under paragraph (b),(c), (d) or (e) of the definition of such term if such Event of Default is by or with respect to the Property Trustee), and subject to the provisions of Article VIII, the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement and protect and conserve the Trust Property for the benefit of the Holders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any particular Holder). 16
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.7(a)(ii), the Property Trustee shall have none of the duties, liabilities, powers or the authority of the Administrative Trustees set forth in Section 2.7(a)(i). (b) So long as this Trust Agreement remains in effect, the Trust (or the Trustees acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in their respective capacities as Trustees) shall not undertake any business, activities or transactions except as expressly provided herein or contemplated hereby. In particular, the Trustees (acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in their respective capacities as Trustees) shall not (i) acquire any investments or engage in any activities not authorized by this Trust Agreement, (ii) sell, assign, transfer, exchange, mortgage, pledge, set-off or otherwise dispose of any of the Trust Property or interests therein, including to Holders, except as expressly provided herein, (iii) take any action that would reasonably be expected to cause the Trust to become taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes, (iv) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or issue any other debt, (v) take or consent to any action that would result in the placement of a Lien on any of the Trust Property, (vi) invest any proceeds received by the Trust from holding the Debentures, but shall distribute all such proceeds to Holders of Trust Securities pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement and of the Trust Securities, (vii) acquire any assets other than the Trust Property, (viii) possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the Trust Property, (ix) possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the terms of the Trust Securities in any way whatsoever (except to the extent expressly authorized in this Trust Agreement or by the terms of the Trust Securities) or (x) issue any securities or other evidences of beneficial ownership of, or beneficial interest in, the Trust other than the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall defend all claims and demands of all Persons at any time claiming any Lien on any of the Trust Property adverse to the interest of the Trust or the Holders in their capacity as Holders. (c) In connection with the issuance and sale of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Sponsor shall have the right and, if the Sponsor shall desire that the actions be taken, the responsibility to assist the Trust with respect to, or effect on behalf of the Trust, the following (and any actions taken by the Sponsor in furtherance of the following prior to the date of this Trust Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects): (i) the preparation and filing by the Trust with the Commission of and the execution on behalf of the Trust of a registration statement on the appropriate form in relation to the Trust Preferred Securities, including any amendments thereto; (ii) the determination of the states in which to take appropriate action to qualify or register for sale all or part of the Trust Preferred Securities and the determination of any and all such acts, other than actions that must be taken by or on behalf of the Trust, and the advice to the Trust of actions they must take on behalf of the Trust, and the preparation for execution and filing of any documents to be executed and filed by the Trust or on behalf of the Trust, as the Sponsor deems necessary or advisable in order to comply with the applicable laws of any such states; 17
(iii) the preparation for filing by the Trust and execution on behalf of the Trust of an application to the New York Stock Exchange or any other national stock exchange or the Nasdaq National Market or any other automated quotation system for listing upon notice of issuance of any Trust Preferred Securities and filing with such exchange or self-regulatory organization such notification and documents as may be necessary from time to time to maintain such listing; (iv) the negotiation of the terms of, and the execution and delivery of, the Underwriting Agreement providing for the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities; and (v) the taking of any other actions necessary or desirable to carryout any of the foregoing activities. (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Administrative Trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs of the Trust and to operate the Trust so that the Trust will not be deemed to be an "investment company" required to be registered under the Investment Company Act, and will not be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes and so that the Debentures will be treated as indebtedness of the Sponsor for United States Federal income tax purposes. In this connection, the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees are authorized to take any action, not inconsistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Trust or this Trust Agreement, that they determine in their discretion to be necessary or desirable for such purposes, as long as such action does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities. In no event shall the Sponsor or the Trustees be liable to the Trust or the Holders for any failure to comply with this Section that results from a change in law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof. SECTION 2.8. Assets of Trust. The assets of the Trust shall consist solely of the Trust Property. SECTION 2.9. Title to Trust Property. Legal title to all Trust Property shall be vested at all times in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) and shall be held and administered by the Property Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement. ARTICLE III PAYMENT ACCOUNT SECTION 3.1. Payment Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Property Trustee shall establish the Payment Account. The Property Trustee and its agents shall have exclusive control and sole right of withdrawal with respect to the Payment Account for the purpose of making deposits in and withdrawals from the Payment Account in accordance with this Trust 18
Agreement. All monies and other property deposited or held from time to time in the Payment Account shall be held by the Property Trustee in the Payment Account for the exclusive benefit of the Holders and for distribution as herein provided, including (and subject to) any priority of payments provided for herein. (b) The Property Trustee shall deposit in the Payment Account, promptly upon receipt, all payments of principal of or interest on, and any other payments or proceeds with respect to, the Debentures. Amounts held in the Payment Account shall not be invested by the Property Trustee pending distribution thereof. ARTICLE IV DISTRIBUTIONS; REDEMPTION SECTION 4.1. Distributions. (a) The Trust Securities represent undivided beneficial interests in the Trust Property, and Distributions (including of Additional Amounts) will be made on the Trust Securities at the rate and on the dates that payments of interest (including Additional Interest, as defined in the Indenture) are made on the Debentures. Accordingly: (i) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be cumulative and will accumulate from the Time of Delivery as and when interest accrues on the Debentures. (ii) Distributions shall accumulate on the Trust Securities for each Distribution Period at the Distribution Rate for such Distribution Period. (iii) Distributions payable in cash will be payable quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005, to and including the Stock Purchase Date, and on and after the Stock Purchase Date, Distributions payable in cash, if any, will be payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15 or May 15 and November 15, as applicable, with the first such semi-annual distribution date, if any, occurring on a date that is six months after the Stock Purchase Date (each such date a "Distribution Date"), in each case subject to the Trust having funds available for such Distributions. (iv) For Distribution Periods commencing on or after the Stock Purchase Date, Distributions will accrete at the Distribution Rate instead of being paid in cash (with the amount of accretion on any date for each Trust Security being equal to the amount of accretion on a Like Amount of Debentures), unless the Sponsor elects to pay interest on the Debentures in cash pursuant to Section 10.2 or the Stock Purchase Date is August 15, 2009 and the Remarketing for settlement on such date is a Failed Remarketing. (v) If any date which is otherwise a Distribution Date pursuant to paragraph (iii) above is not a Business Day, then the payment of cash Distributions on such Distribution Date, if applicable, shall be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay), 19
with the same force and effect as if made on the date on which such payment was originally payable; provided, however, that if the next succeeding Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then the payment of cash distributions shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day. (vi) Distributions shall be payable in cash on each Distribution Date on which the Sponsor is obligated to pay interest on the Debentures in cash, and the amount of such cash Distribution on (net of any withholding tax required by law to be withheld on such payments which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) on the Accreted Liquidation Amount of each Trust Security shall equal the amount of interest payable in cash on such Distribution Date on a Like Amount of Debentures. IRS Circular 230 disclosure: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this communication (including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed herein. (vii) The amount of Distributions payable for any Distribution Period shall include the Additional Amounts, if any. (viii) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be made by the Property Trustee from the Payment Account and shall be payable on each Distribution Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Distributions. (b) Distributions in cash on the Trust Securities with respect to a Distribution Date shall be payable to the Holders thereof as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities at the close of business on the relevant record date for such Distribution Date, which shall be the first date of the month in which the relevant Distribution Date falls. Distributions payable on any Trust Securities that are not punctually paid on any Distribution Date will cease to be payable to the Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the relevant record date, and such defaulted Distribution will instead be payable to the Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the special record date or other specified date for determining Holders entitled to such defaulted interest established in accordance with the Indenture. SECTION 4.2. Redemption. (a) On each Debenture Redemption Date and on the Debenture Stated Maturity Date, the Trust will be required to redeem a Like Amount of Trust Securities at the Redemption Price. (b) Upon receipt of notice of a Debenture Redemption Date, notice of redemption of a Like Amount of Trust Securities shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior 20
to the Redemption Date to each Holder of Trust Securities to be redeemed, at such Holder's address appearing in the Security Register. All notices of redemption shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the Redemption Price or if the Redemption Price cannot be calculated prior to the time the notice is required to be sent, the estimate of the Redemption Price together with a statement that it is an estimate and that the actual Redemption Price will be calculated on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date (and if an estimate is provided, a further notice shall be sent of the actual Redemption Price on the date that such Redemption Price is calculated); (iii) the CUSIP number or CUSIP numbers of the Trust Preferred Securities affected; (iv) if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed, the identification and/or the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the particular Trust Securities to be redeemed; (v) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Trust Security to be redeemed and that Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate on and after said date, except as provided in Section 4.2(d) below; and (vi) if the Trust Preferred Securities are not in book-entry-only form, the place or places where the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are to be surrendered for the payment of the Redemption Price. (c) The Trust Securities redeemed on each Redemption Date shall be redeemed at the Redemption Price with the proceeds from the contemporaneous redemption or payment at the Debenture Stated Maturity Date of the Debentures. Redemptions of the Trust Securities shall be made and the Redemption Price shall be payable on each Redemption Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Redemption Price. (d) If the Property Trustee gives a notice of redemption in respect of any Trust Preferred Securities, then, by 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Redemption Date, subject to Section 4.2(c), the Property Trustee will, with respect to Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, irrevocably deposit with the Clearing Agency for such Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give such Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. With respect to Trust Preferred Securities that are not Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee, subject to Section 4.2(c), will irrevocably deposit with the Paying Agent, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give the Paying Agent irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities 21
upon surrender of their Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Distributions payable on or prior to the Redemption Date for any Trust Securities called for redemption shall be payable to the Holders of such Trust Securities as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities on the relevant record dates for the related Distribution Dates. If notice of redemption shall have been given and funds deposited as required, then upon the date of such deposit, all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities so called for redemption will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive the Redemption Price and any Distribution payable in respect of the Trust Securities on or prior to the Redemption Date, but without interest, and such Trust Securities will cease to be outstanding. In the event that any date on which any Redemption Price is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), with the same force and effect as if made on such date. In the event that payment of the Redemption Price in respect of any Trust Securities called for redemption is improperly withheld or refused and not paid either by the Trust or by the Sponsor pursuant to the Guarantee, Distributions on such Trust Securities will continue to accumulate, as set forth in Section 4.1, from the Redemption Date originally established by the Trust for such Trust Securities to the date such Redemption Price is actually paid, in which case the actual payment date will be the date fixed for redemption for purposes of calculating the Redemption Price. (e) Subject to Section 4.3(a), if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed on a Redemption Date, then the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Securities to be redeemed shall be allocated pro rata to the Common Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities based upon the relative Accreted Liquidation Amounts of such classes. The particular Trust Preferred Securities to be redeemed shall be selected on a pro rata basis based upon their respective Accreted Liquidation Amounts not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Property Trustee from the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities not previously called for redemption by any method the Property Trustee deems fair and appropriate, provided that so long as the Trust Preferred Securities are in book-entry-only form, such selection shall be made in accordance with the customary procedures for the Clearing Agency for the Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall promptly notify the Securities Registrar in writing of the Trust Preferred Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities selected for partial redemption, the Accreted Liquidation Amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Trust Preferred Securities shall relate, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities that has been or is to be redeemed. SECTION 4.3. Subordination of Common Securities. (a) Payment of Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, the Redemption Price of, and the Liquidation Distribution in respect of, the Trust Securities, as applicable, shall be made, subject to Section 4.2(e), pro rata among the Common 22
Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities based on the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities; provided, however, that if on any Distribution Date, Redemption Date or Liquidation Date any Event of Default resulting from a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing, no payment of any Distribution (including any Additional Amounts) on, Redemption Price of, or Liquidation Distribution in respect of, any Common Security, and no other payment on account of the redemption, liquidation or other acquisition of Common Securities, shall be made unless payment in full in cash of all accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities for all Distribution Periods terminating on or prior thereto, or in the case of payment of the Redemption Price the full amount of such Redemption Price on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities then called for redemption, or in the case of payment of the Liquidation Distribution the full amount of such Liquidation Distribution on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities, shall have been made or provided for, and all funds immediately available to the Property Trustee shall first be applied to the payment in full in cash of all Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, or the Redemption Price of, the Trust Preferred Securities then due and payable. (b) In the case of the occurrence of any Event of Default resulting from any Debenture Event of Default, the Holders of the Common Securities shall have no right to act with respect to any such Event of Default under this Trust Agreement until the effect of all such Events of Default with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been cured, waived or otherwise eliminated. Until all such Events of Default under this Trust Agreement with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been so cured, waived or otherwise eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act solely on behalf of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and not on behalf of the Holders of the Common Securities, and only the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities will have the right to direct the Property Trustee to act on their behalf. SECTION 4.4. Payment Procedures. Payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or, if the Trust Preferred Securities are held by a Clearing Agency, such Distributions shall be made to the Clearing Agency by wire transfer of immediately available funds. A Holder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities may receive payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) by wire transfer of immediately available funds upon written request to the Property Trustee not later than the 15th calendar day, whether or not a Business Day, before the relevant Distribution Date. Payments in respect of the Common Securities shall be made in such manner as shall be mutually agreed between the Property Trustee and the Holders of the Common Securities. 23
SECTION 4.5. Tax Returns and Reports. The Administrative Trustees shall prepare (or cause to be prepared), at the Sponsor's expense, and file all United States Federal, state and local tax and information returns and reports required to be filed by or in respect of the Trust. In this regard, the Administrative Trustees shall (a) prepare and file (or cause to be prepared and filed) all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be filed in respect of the Trust in each taxable year of the Trust, and (b) prepare and furnish (or cause to be prepared and furnished) to each Holder all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be provided by the Trust. The Administrative Trustees shall provide the Sponsor and the Property Trustee with a copy of all such returns and reports promptly after such filing or furnishing. The Trustees shall comply with United States Federal withholding and backup withholding tax laws and information reporting requirements with respect to any payments to Holders under the Trust Securities. SECTION 4.6. Payment of Expenses of the Trust. The Sponsor shall pay to the Trust, and reimburse the Trust for, the full amount of any costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust (other than obligations of the Trust to pay the Holders of any Trust Preferred Securities or other similar interests in the Trust the amounts due such Holders pursuant to the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or such other similar interests, as the case may be), including, without limitation, any taxes, duties or other governmental charges of whatever nature (other than withholding taxes) imposed on the Trust by the United States or any other taxing authority. Such payment obligation includes any such costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust that are required by applicable law to be satisfied in connection with a dissolution of the Trust. SECTION 4.7. Payments under Indenture or Pursuant to Direct Actions. Any amount payable hereunder to any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities (or any Owner with respect thereto) shall be reduced by the amount of any corresponding payment such Holder (or Owner) has directly received pursuant to Section 6.3 of the Supplemental Indenture or Section 5.14 of this Trust Agreement. ARTICLE V TRUST SECURITIES CERTIFICATES SECTION 5.1. Initial Ownership. Upon the formation of the Trust and the contribution by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 2.3 and until the issuance of the Trust Securities, and at any time during which no Trust Securities are outstanding, the Sponsor shall be the sole beneficial owner of the Trust. SECTION 5.2. The Trust Securities Certificates. The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall be issued in minimum denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, and the Common Securities Certificates shall be issued in denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples thereof. The Trust Securities Certificates shall be executed on 24
behalf of the Trust by manual signature of at least one Administrative Trustee. Trust Securities Certificates bearing the manual signatures of individuals who were, at the time when such signatures shall have been affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Trust or the Property Trustee shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust, and entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them shall have ceased to be so authorized prior to the delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates. A transferee of a Trust Securities Certificate shall become a Holder, and shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations of a Holder hereunder, upon due registration of such Trust Securities Certificate in such transferee's name pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.11 or 5.13. SECTION 5.3. Execution, Authentication and Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates. At the Time of Delivery, at least one of the Administrative Trustees shall cause Trust Securities Certificates, in an aggregate Liquidation Amount as provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.5, to be executed on behalf of the Trust and delivered to or upon the written order of the Sponsor, such written order executed by one Authorized Officer thereof, without further corporate action by the Sponsor, in authorized denominations. From time to time, an Administrative may deliver Trust Securities Certificates executed by an Administrative Trustee to the Property Trustee for authentication, together with a written order executed by an Authorized Officer of the sponsor for authentication of such Certificates. No Trust Securities Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Trust Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Trust Securities Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Trust Securities Certificate shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Trust Securities Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. SECTION 5.4. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. The Sponsor shall keep or cause to be kept, at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, a register or registers for the purpose of registering Trust Securities Certificates and transfers and exchanges of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates (the "Securities Register") in which the registrar designated by the Sponsor (the "Securities Registrar"), subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, shall provide for the registration of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and Common Securities Certificates (subject to Section 5.10 in the case of the Common Securities Certificates) and registration of transfers and exchanges of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as herein provided. J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association shall be the initial Securities Registrar. The provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property Trustee also in its role as Securities Registrar, for so long as the Property Trustee shall act as Securities Registrar. 25
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, the Administrative Trustees or any one of them shall execute on behalf of the Trust and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount dated the date of execution by such Administrative Trustee or Trustees. The Securities Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of any Trust Preferred Securities that have been called for redemption during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection for such redemption. At the option of a Holder, Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be exchanged for other Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of the same class and of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount upon surrender of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to be exchanged at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8. Every Trust Preferred Securities Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to an Administrative Trustee and the Securities Registrar duly executed by the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing. Each Trust Preferred Securities Certificate surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be canceled and subsequently disposed of by an Administrative Trustee in accordance with such Person's customary practice. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, but the Securities Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. SECTION 5.5. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates. If (a) any mutilated Trust Securities Certificate shall be surrendered to the Securities Registrar, or if the Securities Registrar shall receive evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Securities Certificate, and (b) there shall be delivered to the Securities Registrar and the Administrative Trustees such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then in the absence of notice that such Trust Securities Certificate shall have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, on behalf of the Trust shall execute and make available for delivery, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Securities Certificate, a new Trust Securities Certificate of like class, tenor and denomination. In connection with the issuance of any new Trust Securities Certificate under this Section 5.5, the Administrative Trustees or the Securities Registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Any duplicate Trust Securities Certificate issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute conclusive evidence of an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust corresponding to that evidenced by the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate, as if originally issued, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate shall be found at any time. 26
SECTION 5.6. Persons Deemed Holders. The Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall each treat the Person in whose name any Trust Securities Certificate shall be registered in the Securities Register as the owner of such Trust Securities Certificate for the purpose of receiving Distributions and for all other purposes whatsoever, and none of the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall be bound by any notice to the contrary. SECTION 5.7. Access to List of Holders' Names and Addresses. Each Holder and each Owner shall be deemed to have agreed not to hold the Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative Trustees accountable by reason of the disclosure of its name and address, regardless of the source from which such information was derived. SECTION 5.8. Maintenance of Office Agency. The Administrative Trustees shall designate an office or offices or agency or agencies where Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Trustees in respect of the Trust Securities Certificates may be served. The Administrative Trustees initially designate J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, as their office and agency for such purposes. An Administrative Trustee shall give prompt written notice to the Sponsor, the Property Trustees and to the Holders of any change in the location of the Securities Register or any such office or agency. SECTION 5.9. Appointment of Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall make Distributions to Holders from the Payment Account and shall report the amounts of such Distributions to the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. Any Paying Agent shall have the revocable power to withdraw funds from the Payment Account solely for the purpose of making the Distributions referred to above. The Property Trustee may revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent in its sole discretion. The Paying Agent shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. Any Person acting as Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying Agent upon 30 days' written notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee. If the Property Trustee shall no longer be the Paying Agent or a successor Paying Agent shall resign or its authority to act be revoked, the Administrative Trustees shall appoint a successor (which shall be a bank or trust company) that is reasonably acceptable to the Sponsor to act as Paying Agent. Such successor Paying Agent or any additional Paying Agent shall execute and deliver to the Trustees an instrument in which such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustees that as Paying Agent, such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent will hold all sums, if any, held by it for payment to the Holders in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Holders. The Paying Agent shall return all unclaimed funds to the Property Trustee and upon removal of a Paying Agent such Paying Agent shall also return all funds in its possession to the Property Trustee. The provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property Trustee also in its role as Paying Agent, for so 27
long as the Property Trustee shall act as Paying Agent and, to the extent applicable, to any other paying agent appointed hereunder. Any reference in this Agreement to the Paying Agent shall include any co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise. SECTION 5.10. Ownership of Common Securities by Sponsor. At the Time of Delivery, the Sponsor shall acquire beneficial and record ownership of the Common Securities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, other than a transfer in connection with a consolidation or merger of the Sponsor into another Person, or any conveyance, transfer or lease by the Sponsor of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person pursuant to Section 10.01 of the Base Indenture, any attempted transfer of the Common Securities other than to a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Sponsor shall be void. The Administrative Trustees shall cause each Common Securities Certificate issued to the Sponsor to contain a legend consistent with this Section 5.10. SECTION 5.11. Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificate. (a) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units and are released from the Collateral Account (as defined in the Pledge Agreement), will be issued in the form of a typewritten Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates representing Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, to be delivered to, or on behalf of, DTC, the initial Clearing Agency, by, or on behalf of, the Trust. Such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates shall initially be registered on the Securities Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the initial Clearing Agency, and no Owner will receive a Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificate representing such Owner's interest in such Trust Preferred Securities, except as provided in Section 5.13. Except where Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates have been issued to the Securities Intermediary or to Owners pursuant to Section 5.13: (i) the provisions of this Section 5.11(a) shall be in full force and effect; (ii) the Securities Registrar and the Trustees shall be entitled to deal with the Clearing Agency for all purposes of this Trust Agreement relating to the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates (including the payment of the Liquidation Amount of and Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and the giving of instructions or directions to Owners of Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates) as the sole Holder of Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and shall have no obligations to the Owners thereof; (iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section 5.11 conflict with any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, the provisions of this Section 5.11 shall control; and 28
(iv) the rights of the Owners of the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate shall be exercised only through the Clearing Agency and shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Owners and the Clearing Agency and/or the Clearing Agency Participants. Pursuant to the Certificate Depository Agreement, unless and until Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are issued pursuant to Section 5.13, the initial Clearing Agency will make book-entry transfers among the Clearing Agency Participants and receive and transmit payments on the Trust Preferred Securities to such Clearing Agency Participants. (b) A single Common Securities Certificate representing the Common Securities shall be issued to the Sponsor in the form of a definitive Common Securities Certificate. SECTION 5.12. Notices to Clearing Agency. To the extent that a notice or other communication to the Holders is required under this Trust Agreement, for so long as Trust Preferred Securities are represented by a Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, the Trustee shall give all such notices and communications specified herein to be given to the Clearing Agency, and shall have no obligations to the Owners. SECTION 5.13. Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery and upon the underwriters' exercise of their over-allotment option, as contemplated by Section 2.4, shall be issued as Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in accordance with Section 2.4. Additionally, if (a) the Sponsor advises the Trustees in writing that the Clearing Agency is no longer willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, and the Sponsor is unable to locate a qualified successor, (b) the Sponsor at its option advises the Trustees in writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing Agency or (c) after the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default, Owners of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates representing beneficial interests aggregating at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities advise the Administrative Trustees in writing that the continuation of a book-entry system through the Clearing Agency is no longer in the best interest of the Owners of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, then the Administrative Trustees shall notify the other Trustees and the Clearing Agency, and the Clearing Agency, in accordance with its customary rules and procedures, shall notify all Clearing Agency Participants for whom it holds Trust Preferred Securities of the occurrence of any such event and of the availability of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to Owners of such class or classes, as applicable, requesting the same. Upon surrender to the Administrative Trustees of the typewritten Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates representing the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates by the Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration instructions, the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, shall execute the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in accordance with the instructions of the Clearing Agency. Neither the Securities Registrar nor the Trustees shall be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions. Upon the issuance of Definitive Trust 29
Preferred Securities Certificates, the Trustees shall recognize the Holders of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as holders of Trust Securities. The Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall be typewritten, printed, lithographed or engraved or may be produced in any other manner as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees that meets the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Trust Preferred Securities are then listed or approved for trading, as evidenced by the execution thereof by the Administrative Trustees or any one of them. SECTION 5.14. Rights of Holders; Waivers of Past Defaults. (a) The legal title to the Trust Property is vested exclusively in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) in accordance with Section 2.9, and the Holders shall not have any right or title therein other than the undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust conferred by their Trust Securities and they shall have no right to call for any partition or division of property, profits or rights of the Trust except as described below. The Trust Securities shall be personal property giving only the rights specifically set forth therein and in this Trust Agreement. The Trust Preferred Securities shall have no preemptive or similar rights and when issued and delivered to Holders against payment of the purchase price therefor will be fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. The Holders of the Trust Securities, in their capacities as such, shall be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (b) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain Outstanding, if, upon a Debenture Event of Default, the Debenture Trustee fails or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Debentures fail to declare the principal of all of the Debentures to be immediately due and payable, the Property Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding shall have the right to make such declaration by a notice in writing to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee and the Property Trustee, in the case of notice by the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, or to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee and the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, in the case of notice by the Property Trustee, and upon any such declaration such principal amount of and the accrued interest on all of the Debentures shall become immediately due and payable, provided that the payment of principal and interest on such Debentures shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in the Indenture. At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Debentures has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Debenture Trustee as in the Indenture provided, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, by written notice to the Property Trustee, the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Sponsor has paid or deposited with the Debenture Trustee a sum sufficient to pay 30
(A) all overdue installments of interest on all of the Debentures, (B) any accrued Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) on all of the Debentures, (C) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Debentures that have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest and Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) thereon at the rate borne by the Debentures, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Debenture Trustee under the Indenture and all amounts due to the Debenture Trustee under Section 7.06 of the Base Indenture and to the Property Trustee under Section 8.6 hereof; and (ii) all Events of Default with respect to the Debentures, other than the non-payment of the principal of the Debentures that has become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default under the Indenture, except a default in the payment of principal or interest (unless such default has been cured and a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest and principal due otherwise than by acceleration has been deposited with the Debenture Trustee) or a default in respect of a covenant or provision that under the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each outstanding Debenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. Upon receipt by the Property Trustee of written notice declaring such an acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, by Holders of any part of the Trust Preferred Securities a record date shall be established for determining Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities entitled to join in such notice, which record date shall be at the close of business on the day the Property Trustee receives such notice. The Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having joined in such notice prior to the day that is 90 days after such record date, such notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new written notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, as the case may be, that is identical to a written notice that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.14(b). (c) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain Outstanding, to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the terms of this Trust Agreement and the 31
Indenture, upon a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture, any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities shall have the right to institute a proceeding directly against the Sponsor, pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, for enforcement of payment to such Holder of any amounts payable in respect of a Like Amount of Debentures (a "Direct Action"). Except as set forth in Section 5.14(b) and this Section 5.14(c), the Holders of Trust Preferred Securities shall have no right to exercise directly any right or remedy available to the holders of, or in respect of, the Debentures. (d) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 5.14, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising there from shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Trust Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 5.15. CUSIP Numbers. The Administrative Trustees in issuing the Trust Preferred Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Property Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Trust Preferred Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Trust Preferred Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Administrative Trustees will promptly notify the Property Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. SECTION 5.16. Cancellation. All Trust Securities Certificates surrendered upon the transfer of Trust Preferred Securities or for delivery of Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Common Equity Unit, or a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of a Normal Common Equity Unit shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Property Trustee, be delivered to the Property Trustee along with appropriate written instructions regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. No Trust Securities Certificates shall be authenticated, executed and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Trust Securities Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Trust Agreement. All cancelled Trust Securities Certificates held by the Property Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary practices. 32
ARTICLE VI ACTS OF HOLDERS; MEETINGS; VOTING SECTION 6.1. Limitations on Voting Rights. (a) Except as expressly provided in this Trust Agreement and in the Indenture and as otherwise required by law, no Holder of Trust Preferred Securities shall have any right to vote or in any manner otherwise control the administration, operation and management of the Trust or the obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set forth, or contained in the terms of the Trust Securities Certificates, be construed so as to constitute the Holders from time to time as partners or members of an association. (b) So long as any Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of the Trust, the Trustees shall not (i) direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Debenture Trustee, or execute any trust or power conferred on the Debenture Trustee with respect to the Debentures, (ii) waive any past default that may be waived under Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture, (iii) exercise any right to rescind or annul a declaration that the principal of all the Debentures shall be due and payable, or (iv) consent to any amendment, modification or termination of the Indenture or the Debentures, where such consent shall be required, without, in each case, obtaining the prior approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities; provided, however, that where a consent under the Indenture would require the consent of each holder of Debentures affected thereby, no such consent shall be given by the Property Trustee without the prior written consent of each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall not revoke any action previously authorized or approved by a vote of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, except by a subsequent vote of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall notify all Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of any notice of default received with respect to the Debentures. In addition to obtaining the foregoing approvals of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Trustees shall, at the expense of the Sponsor, obtain an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that such action shall not cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. SECTION 6.2. Notice of Meetings. Notice of all meetings of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting, shall be given by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 12.8 to each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities, at such Holder's registered address, at least 15 days and not more than 90 days before the meeting. At any such meeting, any business properly before the meeting may be so considered whether or not stated in the notice of the meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. 33
SECTION 6.3. Meetings of Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. No annual meeting of Holders is required to be held. The Property Trustee, however, shall call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities to vote on any matter upon the written request of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities and the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee may, at any time in their discretion, call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities to vote on any matters as to which such Holders are entitled to vote. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. If a quorum is present at a meeting, an affirmative vote by the Holders present, in person or by proxy, holding Trust Preferred Securities representing at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities held by the Holders present, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting shall constitute the action of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, unless this Trust Agreement requires a greater number of affirmative votes. SECTION 6.4. Voting Rights. Holders shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of Initial Liquidation Amount represented by their Outstanding Trust Securities in respect of any matter as to which such Holders are entitled to vote. SECTION 6.5. Proxies. At any meeting of Holders, any Holder entitled to vote there at may vote by proxy, provided that no proxy shall be voted at any meeting unless it shall have been placed on file with the Administrative Trustees, or with such other officer or agent of the Trust as the Administrative Trustees may direct, for verification prior to the time at which such vote shall be taken. Pursuant to a resolution of the Administrative Trustees, proxies may be solicited in the name of the Administrative Trustees or one or more officers of the Administrative Trustees. Only Holders of record shall be entitled to vote. When Trust Securities are held jointly by several persons, any one of them may vote at any meeting in person or by proxy in respect of such Trust Securities, but if more than one of them shall be present at such meeting in person or by proxy, and such joint owners or their proxies so present disagree as to any vote to be cast, such vote shall not be received in respect of such Trust Securities. A proxy purporting to be executed by or on behalf of a Holder shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving invalidity shall rest on the challenger. No proxy shall be valid more than three years after its date of execution. SECTION 6.6. Holder Action by Written Consent. Any action that may be taken by Holders at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if Holders holding at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of all Trust Preferred Securities entitled to vote in respect of such action (or such larger proportion thereof as shall be required by any other provision of this Trust Agreement) shall consent to the action in writing. 34
SECTION 6.7. Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes. For the purposes of determining the Holders who are entitled to notice of and to vote at any meeting or by written consent, or to participate in any Distribution on the Trust Securities in respect of which a record date is not otherwise provided for in this Trust Agreement, or for the purpose of any other action, the Administrative Trustees may from time to time fix a date, not more than 90 days prior to the date of any meeting of Holders or the payment of a Distribution or other action, as the case may be, as a record date for the determination of the identity of the Holders of record for such purposes. SECTION 6.8. Acts of Holders. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Trust Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Property Trustee. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Trust Agreement and (subject to Section 8.1) conclusive in favor of the Trustees, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that any Trustee receiving the same deems sufficient. The ownership of Trust Securities shall be proved by the Securities Register. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Trust Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Trust Security and the Holder of every Trust Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustees, or the Trust in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Trust Security. Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Trust Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the Accreted Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such Accreted Liquidation Amount. 35
If any dispute shall arise between the Holders and the Trustees or among the Holders or the Trustees with respect to the authenticity, validity or binding nature of any request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver or other Act of such Holder or Trustee under this Article VI, then the determination of such matter by the Property Trustee shall be conclusive with respect to such matter. A Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Sponsor under the Guarantee to enforce its rights under the Guarantee without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee (as defined in the Guarantee), the Trust, any Trustee, or any Person or entity. SECTION 6.9. Inspection of Records. Upon reasonable notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee, the records of the Trust shall be open to inspection by Holders during normal business hours for any purpose reasonably related to such Holder's interest as a Holder. SECTION 6.10. Action With Respect to the Debenture. So long as the Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of the Trust, with respect to any waiver, amendment or similar action that requires the consent of the Holders of the Debentures under the Indenture, the Property Trustee shall act at the written direction of the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities (unless a different percentage of Holders shall be specified in the Indenture with respect to such action). ARTICLE VII REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SECTION 7.1. Representations and Warranties of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee. The Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, each severally on behalf of and as to itself, hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Sponsor and the Holders that: (a) the Property Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America; (b) the Property Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement; (c) the Delaware Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the federal laws of the United States of America. (d) the Delaware Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all 36
necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement; (e) this Trust Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and constitutes the valid and legally binding agreement of each of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; (f) the execution, delivery and performance of this Trust Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and do not require any approval of stockholders of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and such execution, delivery and performance will not (i) violate the articles of association or by-laws of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, (ii) violate any provision of, or constitute, with or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of, any Lien on any properties included in the Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of, any indenture, mortgage, credit agreement, license or other agreement or instrument to which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee is a party or by which it is bound, or (iii) violate any law, governmental rule or regulation of the State of New York or the State of Delaware, as the case may be, governing the banking, trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context) or any order, judgment or decree applicable to the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee; (g) neither the authorization, execution or delivery by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee of this Trust Agreement nor the consummation of any of the transactions by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as the case may be) contemplated herein requires the consent or approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with or the taking of any other action with respect to any governmental authority or agency under any existing law of the State of New York or the State of Delaware, governing the [banking], trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context), other than the filing of the Certificate of Trust with the Delaware Secretary of State; and (h) to the best of each of the Property Trustee's and the Delaware Trustee's knowledge, there are no proceedings pending or threatened against or affecting the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee in any court or before any governmental authority, agency or arbitration board or tribunal that, individually or in the aggregate, would materially and adversely affect the Trust or would question the right, power and authority of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, to enter into or perform its obligations as one of the Trustees under this Trust Agreement. SECTION 7.2. Representations and Warranties of Sponsor. The Sponsor hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Holders that: 37
(a) the Trust Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery on behalf of the Trust have been duly authorized and will have been duly and validly executed, issued and delivered by the Administrative Trustees pursuant to the terms and provisions of, and in accordance with the requirements of, this Trust Agreement, and the Holders will be, as of such date, entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement; and (b) there are no taxes, fees or other governmental charges payable by the Trust (or the Trustees on behalf of the Trust) under the laws of the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by any Trustee of this Trust Agreement. ARTICLE VIII THE TRUSTEES SECTION 8.1. Certain Duties and Responsibilities. (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustees shall be as provided by this Trust Agreement, subject to Section 12.10 hereof with respect to the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require any of the Trustees to expend or risk its or their own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its or their duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its or their rights or powers, if it or they shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Trust Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustees shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 8.1. To the extent that, at law or in equity, an Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee has duties and liabilities relating to the Trust or to the Holders, such Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall not be liable to the Trust or to any Holder for such Administrative Trustee's or Delaware Trustee's good faith reliance on the provisions of this Trust Agreement. The provisions of this Trust Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Sponsor and the Holders to replace such other duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee. (b) All payments made by the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent in respect of the Trust Securities shall be made only from the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property and only to the extent that there shall be sufficient revenue or proceeds from the Trust Property to enable the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent to make payments in accordance with the terms hereof. Each Holder, by its acceptance of a Trust Security, agrees that it will look solely to the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent legally available for distribution to it as herein provided and that the Trustees are not personally liable to such Holder for any amount distributable in respect of any Trust Security or for any other liability in respect of any Trust Security. This Section 8.1(b) does not limit the liability of the Trustees expressly set forth elsewhere in this Trust Agreement or, in the case of the Property Trustee, in the Trust Indenture Act. 38
(c) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall enforce this Trust Agreement for the benefit of the Holders. (d) The Property Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Trust Agreement against the Property Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 5.14), the Property Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (e) No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Property Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred: (A) the duties and obligations of the Property Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10), and the Property Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10); and (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Property Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; (ii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Property Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; (iii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Property Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement; (iv) the Property Trustee's sole duty with respect to the custody, safe keeping and physical preservation of the Debentures and the Payment Account shall 39
be to deal with such property in a similar manner as the Property Trustee deals with similar property for its own account, subject to the protections and limitations on liability afforded to the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement and the Trust Indenture Act; (v) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any interest on any money received by it except as it may otherwise agree with the Sponsor; and money held by the Property Trustee need not be segregated from other funds held by it except in relation to the Payment Account maintained by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 3.1 and except to the extent otherwise required by law; (vi) the Property Trustee shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the Administrative Trustees or the Sponsor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall the Property Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Sponsor; and (vii) no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require the Property Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Property Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Trust Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. (f) The Administrative Trustees shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the other Trustees or the Sponsor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall either Administrative Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Trustee or the Sponsor. (g) The Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and liabilities of the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees set forth herein. The duties of the Delaware Trustee shall be limited to (i) accepting legal process served on the Trust in the State of Delaware and (ii) the execution of any certificates required to be filed with the Delaware Secretary of State which the Delaware Trustee is required to execute under Section 3811 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. The Delaware Trustee shall be entitled to all of the same rights, protections indemnities and immunities under the Trust Agreement and with respect to the Trust as the Property Trustee. SECTION 8.2. Certain Notices. Within thirty days after the occurrence of any Event of Default actually known to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice of such Event of Default to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived. Within five Business Days after the receipt of notice of the Sponsor's exercise of its right to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures pursuant to the Indenture, the Property Trustee 40
shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice of such exercise to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such exercise shall have been revoked. The Property Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Property Trustee shall have received written notice or a Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee charged with the administration of this Trust Agreement shall have obtained actual knowledge of such Event of Default. SECTION 8.3. Certain Rights of Property Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.1: (a) the Property Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting in good faith upon any resolution, Opinion of Counsel, certificate, written representation of a Holder or transferee, certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) if (i) in performing its duties under this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee is required to decide between alternative courses of action, (ii) in construing any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee finds the same ambiguous or inconsistent with any other provisions contained herein, or (iii) the Property Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of this Trust Agreement, then, except as to any matter as to which the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote under the terms of this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall deliver a notice to the Sponsor requesting the Sponsor's opinion as to the course of action to be taken; provided, however, that if the Sponsor fails to deliver such opinion within 10 Business Days, the Property Trustee may take such action, or refrain from taking such action, as the Property Trustee shall determine in the interests of the Holders, in which event the Property Trustee shall have no liability except for its own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct; (c) any direction or act of the Sponsor or the Sponsor contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate; (d) any direction or act of an Administrative Trustee contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by a certificate executed by such Administrative Trustee and setting forth such direction or act; (e) the Property Trustee shall have no duty to see to any recording, filing or registration of any instrument (including any financing or continuation statement or any filing under tax or securities laws) or any rerecording, refiling or re-registration thereof; (f) the Property Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection (which counsel may be counsel to the Sponsor or any of its Affiliates, and may include any of its employees) and the advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith 41
and in reliance thereon and in accordance with such advice; the Property Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Trust Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction; (g) the Property Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Trust Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Property Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; provided that, nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Property Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Agreement, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs; (h) the Property Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by one or more Holders, but the Property Trustee may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Sponsor and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation; (i) the Property Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, provided that the Property Trustee shall be responsible for its own negligence or misconduct with respect to selection of any agent or attorney appointed by it hereunder; (j) whenever in the administration of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Property Trustee (i) may request instructions from the Holders (which instructions may only be given by the Holders of the same proportion in Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities as would be entitled to direct the Property Trustee under the terms of the Trust Securities in respect of such remedy, right or action), (ii) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received, and (iii) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions; and (k) except as otherwise expressly provided by this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall not be under any obligation to take any action that is discretionary under the provisions of this Trust Agreement. No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on any Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it, in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which such Person shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to perform any such act or acts, or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to any Trustee shall be construed to be a duty. 42
SECTION 8.4. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Trust and the Sponsor, and the Trustees do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustees shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Sponsor of the proceeds of the Debentures. The Property Trustee makes no representation as to the title to, or value or condition of, the Trust Property or any part thereof, including the Debentures, nor as to the validity or sufficiency of the Trust Agreement, the Debentures or the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or the qualification of the Trust as a Delaware statutory trust or a grantor trust or as to the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust, including without limitation, any registration exemptions applicable to the Trust Securities. SECTION 8.5. May Hold Securities. Any Trustee or any other agent of any Trustee or the Trust, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Trust Securities and, subject to Sections 8.8 and 8.13, and except as provided in the definition of the term "Outstanding" in Article I, may otherwise deal with the Trust with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee or such other agent. SECTION 8.6. Compensation; Indemnity; Fees. The Sponsor agrees: (a) to pay to the Trustees from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by them hereunder as may be separately agreed by the Sponsor and the Trustees from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustees upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustees in accordance with any provision of this Trust Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of their agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by their own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and (c) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Trustee, (ii) any Affiliate of any Trustee, (iii) any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or agent of any Trustee, and (iv) any employee or agent of the Trust (referred to herein as an "Indemnified Person") from and against any loss, damage, liability, tax, penalty, expense or claim of any kind or nature whatsoever incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of the creation, operation or dissolution of the Trust or any act or omission performed or omitted by such Indemnified Person in good faith on behalf of the Trust and in a manner such Indemnified Person reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Indemnified Person by this Trust Agreement, except that no Indemnified Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in 43
respect of any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct with respect to such acts or omissions. The provisions of this Section 8.6 shall survive the termination of this Trust Agreement and the removal or resignation of any Trustee. No Trustee may claim any Lien on any Trust Property as a result of any amount due pursuant to this Section 8.6. Subject to Section 8.8, The Sponsor and any Trustee may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Trust, and the Trust and the Holders of Trust Securities shall have no rights by virtue of this Trust Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the business of the Trust, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. Neither the Sponsor nor any Trustee shall be obligated to present any particular investment or other opportunity to the Trust even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Trust, could be taken by the Trust, and the Sponsor and any Trustee shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a partner or fiduciary) or to recommend to others any such particular investment or other opportunity. Any Trustee may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor, or may act as depository for, trustee or agent for, or act on any committee or body of holders of, securities or other obligations of the Sponsor or its Affiliates. SECTION 8.7. Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees and Administrative Trustees. (a) There shall at all times be a Property Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall be a Person that is a national or state chartered bank or trust company and eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 8.7 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Property Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8.7(a), it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article VIII. At the time of appointment, the Property Trustee must have securities rated in one of the three highest rating categories by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. (b) There shall at all times be one or more Administrative Trustees hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. Each Administrative Trustee shall be either a natural person who is at least 21 years of age or a legal entity that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind that entity. (c) There shall at all times be a Delaware Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities. The Delaware Trustee shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 44
years of age and a resident of the State of Delaware, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the State of Delaware and that otherwise meets the requirements of applicable Delaware law and that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. SECTION 8.8. Conflicting Interests. (a) If the Property Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Trust Agreement. (b) The Guarantee Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Trust Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. SECTION 8.9. Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee. Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, at any time or times, for the purpose of meeting the legal requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or of any jurisdiction in which any part of the Trust Property may at the time be located, the Holder of Common Securities and the Administrative Trustees shall have the power to appoint one or more Persons either to act as co-trustee, jointly with the Property Trustee, of all or any part of such Trust Property, or to the extent required by law to act as separate trustee of any such property, in either case with such powers as may be provided in the instrument of appointment, and to vest in such Person or Persons in the capacity aforesaid, any property, title, right or power deemed necessary or desirable, subject to the other provisions of this Section. If a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee shall have the sole power to so appoint such a co-trustee or separate trustee, and upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall for such purpose join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery, and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to appoint such co-trustee or separate trustee. Any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the United States, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the United States that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. Should any written instrument from the Sponsor be required by any co-trustee or separate trustee so appointed for more fully confirming to such co-trustee or separate trustee such property, title, right, or power, any and all such instruments shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the Sponsor. Every co-trustee or separate trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, but to such extent only, be appointed subject to the following terms, namely: (a) The Trust Securities shall be executed by one or more Administrative Trustees, and the Trust Securities shall be delivered by the Property Trustee, and all rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereunder in respect of the custody of securities, 45
cash and other personal property held by, or required to be deposited or pledged with, the Property Trustee specified hereunder shall be exercised solely by the Property Trustee and not by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (b) The rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereby conferred or imposed upon the Property Trustee in respect of any property covered by such appointment shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Property Trustee or by the Property Trustee and such co-trustee or separate trustee jointly, as shall be provided in the instrument appointing such co-trustee or separate trustee, except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act is to be performed, the Property Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (c) The Property Trustee at any time, by an instrument in writing executed by it, with the written concurrence of the Sponsor, may accept the resignation of or remove any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed under this Section 8.9, and, in case a Debenture Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall have power to accept the resignation of, or remove, any such co-trustee or separate trustee without the concurrence of the Sponsor. Upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor shall join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to effectuate such resignation or removal. A successor to any co-trustee or separate trustee so resigning or removed may be appointed in the manner provided in this Section 8.9. No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of the Property Trustee or any other trustee hereunder. (d) The Property Trustee shall not be liable by reason of any act or omission of a co-trustee or separate trustee. (e) Any Act of Holders delivered to the Property Trustee shall be deemed to have been delivered to each such co-trustee and separate trustee. SECTION 8.10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. No resignation or removal of any Trustee (the "Relevant Trustee") and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article VIII shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. Subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Relevant Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Sponsor and by appointing a successor Relevant Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to the Sponsor. The Relevant Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the eligibility requirements its expenses and charges to serve as the Relevant Trustee on a form provided by the Administrative Trustees, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges. If the instrument of acceptance by the successor Trustee required by Section 8.11 shall not have been 46
delivered to the Relevant Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the Relevant Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Sponsor, in the case of the Property Trustee, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee. The Administrative Trustees, or any of them, may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of Common Securities delivered to the Relevant Trustee. The Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed by Act of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, delivered to the Relevant Trustee (in its individual capacity and, in the case of the Property Trustee, on behalf of the Trust) (i) for cause (including upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in subparagraph (d) of the definition thereof with respect to the Relevant Trustee), or (ii) at any time if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of the Common Securities. If a resigning Property Trustee or Delaware Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Trustee, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Common Securities by Act of such Holders delivered to the Relevant Trustee or, if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by Act of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding delivered to such Relevant Trustee, may appoint a successor Relevant Trustee or Trustees, and such successor Trustee shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. If no successor Relevant Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Common Securities or Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 8.11, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee. The resigning Trustee shall give notice of each resignation or each removal of an Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 12.8 and shall give notice to the Sponsor and to the other Trustees. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Relevant Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office if it is the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Trust Agreement, if any Delaware Trustee who is a natural person dies or becomes, in the opinion of the Holders of the Common Securities, incompetent or incapacitated, the vacancy created by such death, incompetence or incapacity may be filled by the Property Trustee following the procedures regarding expenses and charges set forth above (with the successor being a Person who satisfies the eligibility requirement for the Delaware Trustee set forth in Section 8.7). 47
SECTION 8.11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor to a Relevant Trustee, the Sponsor, the retiring Relevant Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall execute and deliver an amendment hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (a) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Relevant Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities and the Trust, and (b) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Trust by more than one party hereto, it being understood that nothing herein or in such amendment shall constitute such parties co-trustees and upon the execution and delivery of such amendment the resignation or removal of the retiring Relevant Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Relevant Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Relevant Trustee, other than the filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent required under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act; but, on request of the Trust or any successor Trustee, such retiring Relevant Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all Trust Property, all proceeds thereof and money held by such retiring Relevant Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities and the Trust. Upon request of any such successor party, the Trust shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor party all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding paragraph. No successor party shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor party shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VIII. SECTION 8.12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Relevant Trustee shall be a party, or any Person, succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of such Relevant Trustee, shall be the successor of such Relevant Trustee hereunder, provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article VIII, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, other than the filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent required under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 8.13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Sponsor or Trust. If and when the Property Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Sponsor or the Trust (or any other obligor upon the Trust Preferred Securities), the Property Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Sponsor or the Trust (or any such other obligor). 48
SECTION 8.14. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other similar judicial proceeding relative to the Trust or any other obligor upon the Trust Securities or the property of the Trust (including the Debentures) or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Property Trustee (irrespective of whether any Distributions on the Trust Securities shall then be due and payable and irrespective of whether the Property Trustee shall have made any demand on the Trust for the payment of any past due Distributions) shall be entitled and empowered, to the fullest extent permitted by law, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise: (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of any Distributions owing and unpaid in respect of the Trust Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Property Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Property Trustee and, in the event the Property Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Property Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Property Trustee under Section 8.6, and (c) without prejudice to any other rights available to the Property Trustee under applicable law, when the Property Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with a Bankruptcy Event, such expenses (including legal fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expense of administration under any Bankruptcy Law or law relating to creditors' rights generally. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Property Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement adjustment or compensation affecting the Trust Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Property Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 8.15. Reports by Property Trustee. (a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with May 15, 2006, the Property Trustee shall transmit to all Holders in accordance with Section 12.8, and to the Sponsor, a brief report dated as of the immediately preceding May 15 with respect to: 49
(i) its eligibility under Section 8.7 or, in lieu thereof, if to the best of its knowledge it has continued to be eligible under said Section, a written statement to such effect; (ii) a statement that the Property Trustee has complied with all of its obligations under this Trust Agreement during the twelve-month period (or, in the case of the initial report, the period since the Closing Date) ending with such May 15 or, if the Property Trustee has not complied in any material respect with such obligations, a description of such noncompliance; and (iii) any change in the property and funds in its possession as Property Trustee since the date of its last report and any action taken by the Property Trustee in the performance of its duties hereunder which it has not previously reported and which in its opinion materially affects the Trust Securities. (b) In addition, the Property Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Property Trustee and its actions under this Trust Agreement as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Property Trustee with each national stock exchange, the Nasdaq National Market or such other interdealer quotation system or self-regulatory organization upon which the Trust Preferred Securities are listed or quoted, if any, and with the Commission and the Sponsor. SECTION 8.16. Reports to the Property Trustee. Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such documents, reports and information as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act (if any) and the compliance certificate required by Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. The Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall annually file with the Property Trustee a certificate specifying whether such Person is in compliance with all of the terms and covenants (if any) applicable to such Person hereunder. SECTION 8.17. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such evidence of compliance with any conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Trust Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate. SECTION 8.18. Number of Trustees. (a) The number of Trustees shall be five, unless the Property Trustee also acts as the Delaware Trustee, in which case the number of Trustees may be three. 50
(b) If an Trustee ceases to hold office for any reason, a vacancy shall occur. The vacancy shall be filled with an Trustee appointed in accordance with Section 8.10. (c) The death, resignation, retirement, removal, bankruptcy, incompetence or incapacity to perform the duties of an Trustee shall not operate to annul or dissolve the Trust. SECTION 8.19. Delegation of Power. (a) Any Administrative Trustee may, by power of attorney consistent with applicable law, delegate to any other natural person over the age of 21 his or her power for the purpose of executing any documents contemplated in Section 2.7(a) or making any governmental filing; and (b) The Administrative Trustees shall have power to delegate from time to time to such of their number the doing of such things and the execution of such instruments either in the name of the Trust or the names of the Administrative Trustees or otherwise as the Administrative Trustees may deem expedient, to the extent such delegation is not prohibited by applicable law or contrary to the provisions of this Trust Agreement. SECTION 8.20. Trust Liabilities. All liabilities of the Trust will be liabilities of the Trust as an entity, and will be paid or satisfied from the Trust Property and the other assets of the Trust. No liability of the Trust will be payable in whole or in part by the Property Trustee in its individual capacity or in its capacity as Property Trustee or by any member, partner, shareholder, director, officer, employee, agent or attorney of the Property Trustee. ARTICLE IX DISSOLUTION, LIQUIDATION AND MERGER SECTION 9.1. Dissolution Upon Expiration Date. Unless earlier dissolved, the Trust shall automatically dissolve, and its affairs be wound up, on May 17, 2056 (the "Expiration Date"), following the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with Section 9.4. SECTION 9.2. Early Dissolution. The first to occur of any of the following events is an "Early Dissolution Event": (a) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event in respect of, or the dissolution or liquidation of, the Sponsor, unless the Common Securities shall be transferred as provided by Section 5.10, in which case this provision shall refer instead to any such successor Holder of the Common Securities; 51
(b) the written direction to the Property Trustee from all of the Holders of the Common Securities at any time to dissolve the Trust and, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to distribute the Debentures to Holders in exchange for the Trust Preferred Securities (which direction is optional and wholly within the discretion of the Holders of the Common Securities); (c) the redemption of all of the Trust Preferred Securities in connection with the redemption or repayment of all the Debentures; and (d) the entry of an order for dissolution of the Trust by a court of competent jurisdiction. SECTION 9.3. Dissolution. The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Trustees and the Trust shall terminate upon the latest to occur of the following: (a) the distribution by the Property Trustee to Holders of all amounts required to be distributed hereunder upon the liquidation of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4, or upon the redemption of all of the Trust Securities pursuant to Section 4.2; (b) the payment of any and all expenses owed by the Trust; (c) the discharge of all administrative duties of the Administrative Trustees, including the performance of any tax reporting obligations with respect to the Trust or the Holders; and (d) the filing of a certificate of cancellation, at the direction and expense of the Sponsor, by the Trustees with the Delaware Secretary of State pursuant to Section 3810 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 9.4. Liquidation. (a) If an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of Section 9.2 occurs or upon the Expiration Date, the Trust shall be liquidated by the Property Trustee as expeditiously as the Property Trustee determines to be possible by distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to each Holder a Like Amount of Debentures, subject to Section 9.4(d). Notice of liquidation shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Liquidation Date to each Holder of Trust Securities at such Holder's address appearing in the Securities Register. All such notices of liquidation shall: (i) state the CUSIP Number of the Trust Securities; (ii) state the Liquidation Date; (iii) state that from and after the Liquidation Date, the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding and any Trust Securities Certificates not surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures, or if Section 9.4(d) applies, a right to receive a Liquidating Distribution; and (iv) provide such information with respect to the mechanics by which Holders may exchange Trust Securities Certificates for Debentures, or if Section 52
9.4(d) applies, receive a Liquidation Distribution, as the Property Trustee (after consultation with the Administrative Trustees) shall determine. (b) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, in order to effect the liquidation of the Trust and distribution of the Debentures to Holders, the Property Trustee, either itself acting as exchange agent or through the appointment of a separate exchange agent, shall establish a record date for such distribution (which shall be not more than 30 days prior to the Liquidation Date) and, establish such procedures as it shall deem appropriate to effect the distribution of Debentures in exchange for the Outstanding Trust Securities Certificates. (c) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, after the Liquidation Date, (i) the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding, (ii) certificates representing a Like Amount of Debentures will be issued to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates, upon surrender of such Certificates to the exchange agent for exchange, (iii) any Trust Securities Certificates not so surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures bearing accrued and unpaid interest in an amount equal to the accumulated and unpaid Distributions on such Trust Securities Certificates until such certificates are so surrendered (and until such certificates are so surrendered, no payments of interest or principal will be made to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates with respect to such Debentures) and (iv) all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive Debentures upon surrender of Trust Securities Certificates. (d) If, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 9.4, whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, distribution of the Debentures in the manner provided herein is determined by the Property Trustee not to be practical, or if an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (c) of Section 9.2 occurs, the Trust Property shall be liquidated, and the Trust shall be dissolved and its affairs wound-up, by the Property Trustee in such manner as the Property Trustee determines. In such event, the Holders, if any, will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to Holders, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, an amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount per Trust Security plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the date of payment (such amount being the "Liquidation Distribution"). If the Liquidation Distribution can be paid only in part because the Trust has insufficient assets available to pay in full the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Distribution, then, subject to the next succeeding sentence, the amounts payable by the Trust on the Trust Securities shall be paid on a pro rata basis (based upon Liquidation Amounts). The Holders of the Common Securities will be entitled to receive Liquidation Distributions pro rata (determined as aforesaid) with Holders of Trust Preferred Securities, except that, if a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Trust Preferred Securities shall have a priority over the Common Securities as provided in Section 4.3. 53
SECTION 9.5. Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of Trust. The Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person or other body, except pursuant to this Section 9.5 or Section 9.4. At the request of the Holders of the Common Securities, with the consent of the Administrative Trustees, but without the consent of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, the Trust may merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a trust organized as such under the laws of any state; provided, that (i) such successor entity either (a) expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, or (b) substitutes for the Trust Preferred Securities other securities having substantially the same terms as the Trust Preferred Securities (the "Successor Securities") so long as the Successor Securities have the same priority as the Trust Preferred Securities with respect to distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise, (ii) a trustee of such successor entity possessing substantially the same powers and duties as the Property Trustee is appointed to hold the Debentures, (iii) the Successor Securities are listed, or any Successor Securities will be listed upon notification of issuance, on any national securities exchange or other organization on which the Trust Preferred Securities are listed, (iv) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not cause the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) to be downgraded by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, (v) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, (vi) such successor entity has a purpose substantially identical to that of the Trust, (vii) prior to such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, the Property Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (a) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, and (b) following such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, neither the Trust nor such successor entity will be required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act, and (viii) the Sponsor or its permitted transferee owns all of the common securities of such successor entity and the Sponsor guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the Successor Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trust shall not, except with the consent of Holders of all of the Trust Preferred Securities, consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other Person or permit any other Person to consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease would cause the Trust or the successor entity to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. 54
ARTICLE X REMARKETING AND RESET RATE MECHANICS SECTION 10.1. Obligation to Conduct Remarketing and Related Requirements. (a) The Sponsor and the Trust shall appoint a nationally recognized investment banking firm as Remarketing Agent and enter into a Remarketing Agreement at least 30 days prior to each Remarketing Date. The Sponsor and the Trust may appoint different Remarketing Agents for Remarketings on and in connection with different Remarketing Dates, provided that they shall have appointed a Remarketing Agent and caused the related Remarketing Agreement to be in effect for the period commencing not less than 30 days prior to the related Remarketing Date and continuing through such Remarketing Date and the determination in accordance with this Article X that the related Remarketing is a Successful Remarketing or Failed Remarketing. Each Remarketing Agreement shall include such terms, conditions and other provisions as the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent may agree among themselves but shall in any event include provisions to substantially the following effect: (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a price for the Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed in the Remarketing which results in proceeds, net of the Remarketing Agent's Fee, equal to at least 100% of their aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount, plus accrued and unpaid Distributions, if any, to the Remarketing Settlement Date (including the Additional Interest, if any, that remains accrued and unpaid on the Remarketing Settlement Date because the Sponsor has exercised its right to defer interest on the Debentures in accordance with Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture); (ii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will in its sole discretion reset the Distribution Rate on the Trust Preferred Securities (as a yield to the Scheduled Redemption Date unless the Sponsor elects, pursuant to Section 2.13 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Section 10.2 of this Trust Agreement, to cause interest on the Debentures to be paid in cash, and then as a rate per annum for payment of interest in cash on each applicable Distribution Date) in order to give effect to clause (i) above for Distribution Periods commencing on or after such Remarketing Settlement Date, subject to Section 10.3; (iii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will deduct the Remarketing Agent's Fee from the proceeds of the Remarketing and remit any proceeds remaining after such deduction to or at the direction of the Property Trustee, who either will apply such proceeds (or will have given the Remarketing Agent instructions to remit such proceeds in a manner that will result in their application) as follows (allocated to the Trust Preferred Securities that participated in the Remarketing on a pro rata basis in proportion to their Accreted Liquidation Amounts): (iv) to the extent such proceeds relate to Trust Preferred Securities that are a part of Normal Common Equity Units, to pay such proceeds up to the aggregate Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for 55
application in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and to pay the Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount, if any, to the applicable selling Holders; and (b) to the extent the proceeds relate to Separate Trust Preferred Securities, to pay such proceeds to the applicable selling Holders; and (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent's Fee for the Remarketing will be as agreed among the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent and set forth in the Remarketing Agreement. (c) The Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to effect remarketing of the Trust Preferred Securities as described in this Article X. If in the judgment of counsel to the Sponsor or to the Remarketing Agent it is necessary for a registration statement covering the Trust Preferred Securities to have been filed and have become effective under the Securities Act in order to effect the Remarketing, then the Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially reasonable efforts (i) to ensure that a registration statement covering the full Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed shall have become effective in a form that will enable the Remarketing Agent to rely on it in connection with the Remarketing or (ii) effect such Remarketing pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or another available exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. SECTION 10.2. Sponsor Decisions in Connection With Remarketing. In connection with Remarketings, the Sponsor shall have the right hereunder to change certain terms of the Trust Preferred Securities (and under Section 2.10 of the Supplement Indenture, the Sponsor has the right to make corresponding changes in certain terms of the Debentures) as provided below in this Section 10.2. By not later than the 30th day prior to each Remarketing Date, the Sponsor will specify the following information or decisions in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraphs (a) through (e) applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only if the related Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing): (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Debentures will pay interest (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities will pay Distributions) in cash (it being understood and agreed that, unless the Sponsor affirmatively elects to cause the Debentures to pay interest (and the Trust Preferred Securities to pay Distributions) in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will not be paid or Distributions made in cash but, instead, will accrete in accordance with Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement and Section 2.10 of the Supplemental Indenture, as applicable); (b) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and, accordingly, the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); provided, however, that the Debenture Stated Maturity Date may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of 56
the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (c) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on a day prior to the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the date on and after which the Debentures may be so redeemed and the redemption price or prices; provided, however, that an early redemption date for the Debentures and related early Redemption Date hereunder may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (d) whether the Sponsor elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add any additional financial covenants to the Indenture applicable to the Debentures, including the form of supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to such additional financial covenants if the Sponsor is choosing to add any financial covenants; (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Sponsor is exercising its right under Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture and Section 6.3 of the Guarantee Agreement to cause the subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Debentures and in the Guarantee Agreement to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing Settlement Date; and (f) if the Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and if the related Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing: (i) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and, accordingly, the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); and (ii) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on a date prior to the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the date on and after which the Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, any changed Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. SECTION 10.3. Reset of Distribution Rate in Connection with Remarketings and Related Changes in Terms. (a) As part of and in connection with each Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall reset the Distribution Rate, as contemplated by Section 10.1(a)(ii) and in accordance with the other provisions of this Article X, to a new rate (the "Reset Rate"), rounded to the nearest one-thousandth (0.001) of one percent per annum, that will apply 57
to all Trust Preferred Securities (whether or not the Holders thereof participated in the Remarketing) if such Remarketing is Successful for each Distribution Period commencing on or after such Remarketing Settlement Date, subject to the following provisions and limitations: (i) the Reset Rate in connection with a Remarketing for settlement on the Remarketing Settlement Date, if such date is on or prior to November 15, 2008, may not be reset to a rate per annum that exceeds the Reset Cap; and (ii) the Reset Rate may not be less than 0% per annum in connection with any Remarketing. (b) If the Remarketing has been determined to be Successful in accordance with Section 10.4(e), by approximately 4:30 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent shall notify the Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that the Remarketing was Successful and the Reset Rate determined as part of such Remarketing in accordance with this Article X. (c) If a Remarketing is Successful, then commencing with the related Remarketing Settlement Date the Distribution Rate shall be reset to the Reset Rate determined in accordance with this Article X pursuant to such Remarketing and the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall become effective (in accordance with the Indenture in the case of the Debentures). (d) If a Remarketing for a settlement on a Remarketing Settlement Date prior to February 15, 2009 is not Successful: (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such Remarketing; (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged unless and until it is reset pursuant to a subsequent Remarketing in accordance with this Article X; (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall not become effective (whether pursuant to this Agreement in the case of the Trust Preferred Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case of the Debentures); and (iv) the Sponsor, the Trust and the applicable Remarketing Agent shall attempt another Remarketing on the next succeeding date that is a Remarketing Settlement Date. 58
(e) If a Remarketing for a settlement on the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date is not Successful: (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such Remarketing and no further attempts at Remarketing shall be made; (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged and, in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture, the Debentures will continue to bear cash interest (and under this Trust Agreement the Trust Preferred Securities will continue to bear cash Distributions) at the Distribution Rate otherwise in effect, payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15 thereafter; (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to clauses (a) through (e) of the second sentence in Section 10.2, shall not become effective (whether pursuant to this Trust Agreement in the case of the Trust Preferred Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case of the Debentures); (iv) the Debenture Stated Maturity Date, Scheduled Redemption Date, and early redemption date for the Debentures and Trust Preferred Securities, will change in accordance with paragraph (f) of the second sentence of Section 10.2, as applicable; (v) in the case of Trust Preferred Securities that are included in Normal Common Equity Units, such Trust Preferred Securities will be applied in satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the Pledge Agreement; and (vi) in the case of Separate Trust Preferred Securities, such Trust Preferred Securities will be returned to the related Holders in accordance with the Pledge Agreement and Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities will have the rights provided for in Section 10.5. SECTION 10.4. Remarketing Procedures. (a) The Property Trustee will give Holders hereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement provides the Stock Purchase Agent will give Holders (as defined therein) of Common Equity Units, and the Sponsor will request that DTC give to its participants holding Common Equity Units or Trust Preferred Securities, notice of a Remarketing at least 21 Business Days prior to the related Remarketing Date. Such notice will set forth: (i) whether for Distribution Periods commencing on or after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Debentures will pay interest (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities will pay Distributions) in cash or instead will accrete interest and Distributions, as applicable, together with the applicable Distribution Dates and related record dates; 59
(ii) any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on and after which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the Debentures (resulting in a redemption by the Trust of the Trust Preferred Securities); (iii) whether the Sponsor's obligations under the Debentures and the Guarantee Agreement will remain subordinated after the Remarketing Settlement Date; (iv) any other changes in the terms of the Debentures or the Trust Preferred Securities notified by the Sponsor in connection with such Remarketing pursuant to Section 10.2 (including, if the Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing, any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on or after which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the Debentures (resulting in a redemption by the Sponsor of the Common Equity Units)); (v) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds its Trust Preferred Securities as a component of Normal Common Equity Units to elect not to participate in the Remarketing and the date by which such election must be made; (vi) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds Separate Trust Preferred Securities to elect to participate in the Remarketing; and (vii) in the case of a Remarketing for settlement on the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date, the procedures an Owner must follow in the event such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing if such Owner holds Separate Trust Preferred Securities to exercise its Put Right. (b) On any Remarketing Date, all outstanding Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will be tendered or deemed tendered to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing unless the Holder thereof elects not to participate in the Remarketing. Each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units, by purchasing such Trust Preferred Securities, agrees to have such Trust Preferred Securities remarketed on any Remarketing Date (unless such Holder elects not to participate in the Remarketing as provided herein) and authorizes the Remarketing Agent to take any and all action on its behalf necessary to effect the Remarketing. On any Remarketing Date, each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will have the right to elect not to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed by giving notice and taking the other actions provided for in Section 5.05 of the Pledge Agreement. (c) Each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities may elect to have such Holder's Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in any Remarketing. A Holder making such an election must, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, notify the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent on or prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on or prior to the fifth Business Day 60
immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date (but no earlier than the Distribution Date immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date). Any such notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing or any other condition. Any such notice and delivery may be withdrawn on or prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery not withdrawn by such time will be irrevocable with respect to such Remarketing. Pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, promptly after 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent, based on the notices and deliveries received by it prior to such time, shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the Initial Liquidation Amount of Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be tendered for Remarketing and shall cause such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be presented to the Remarketing Agent. (d) If the Remarketing on a Remarketing Date is Successful, then the Remarketing Agent shall deduct the Remarketing Agent's Fee to which it is entitled as provided in Section 10.1 and the related Remarketing Agreement from the proceeds of such Remarketing and remit the remaining proceeds to the Property Trustee in accordance with Section 10.1(a)(iii) for application as provided therein. (e) If by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date the Remarketing Agent has found buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X, a Successful Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution stating that such Remarketing was successful and specifying the Reset Rate and shall post such information on its website on the World Wide Web. (f) If, by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date the Remarketing Agent is unable to find buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X, a Failed Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution stating that such Remarketing was a Failed Remarketing and, if such Failed Remarketing was for settlement on February 15, 2009, stating the aggregate principal amount of Debentures that the Sponsor will be required to repurchase as required pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture, and the related aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities that the Trust will be required to purchase pursuant to Section 10.5, and publish such information on its website on the World Wide Web. (g) The right of each Holder (whether of Separate Trust Preferred Securities or of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units) to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed and sold in connection with any Remarketing shall be limited to the extent that (i) the Remarketing Agent conducts a Remarketing pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, (ii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a 61
purchaser or purchasers for the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X and the Remarketing Agreement, and (iii) the purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required. (h) Neither the Property Trustee, the Sponsor nor the Remarketing Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Trust Preferred Securities for remarketing. SECTION 10.5. Put Right. (a) Subject to Section 10.5(b), if there has been a Final Failed Remarketing, Holders of Trust Preferred Securities will, subject to this Section 10.5, have the right (the "Put Right") to require: (i) the Property Trustee, as Holder (as defined in the Indenture) of Debentures, to exercise its right under Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture to require the Sponsor to purchase thereunder a Like Amount of Debentures; and (ii) as a consequence, to require the Sponsor to purchase on February 15, 2009 under and in accordance with such Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture a Like Amount of Debentures for consideration per Debenture (the "Put Consideration") of cash in an amount equal to 100% of their Accreted Principal Amount as of such date plus a junior subordinated note of the Sponsor, bearing interest at the rate of 4.82% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest) to but excluding such date on such Debentures and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period and such Deferral Period ends after August 15, 2010, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. The Property Trustee will remit to each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities making such election the Put Consideration upon receipt of the Put Consideration from the Sponsor. (b) The Put Right of a Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities will only be exercisable upon delivery of a notice to the Property Trustee by such Holder on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day prior to the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date. A Holder may give such notice by, when it makes its election under Section 10.4(c) to cause its Trust Preferred Securities to be offered in the Remarketing, stating in such notice that, in the event such Remarketing is in connection with the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date and if such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing, then such Holder makes the election provided for under this Section 10.5. (c) The rights of Holders of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units, including their Put Rights, will be subject to the security interest in favor of the Sponsor provided for in the Pledge Agreement. 62
SECTION 10.6. Common Securities. The terms of the Common Securities shall automatically be modified as and when the terms of Trust Preferred Securities change pursuant to this Article, with the consequence that the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities shall at all times be identical to the terms of the Common Securities, except (i) for the subordination of the Common Securities pursuant to Section 4.3 and (ii) that Section 10.5 shall apply only to the Trust Preferred Securities. ARTICLE XI OTHER COMMON EQUITY UNIT RELATED PROVISIONS SECTION 11.1. Tax Treatment. Each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities agrees, by acceptance of Trust Preferred Securities, and each Owner agrees, by acceptance of a beneficial interest in Trust Preferred Securities, to treat for all United States federal income tax purposes (i) the Trust as a grantor trust, (ii) itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities or treasury securities pledged under the Pledge Agreement, as the case may be, (iii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Sponsor, and (iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in each ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities included in each Normal Common Equity Unit as $12.50 and the fair market value of each Stock Purchase Contract as $0. ARTICLE XII MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS SECTION 12.1. Limitation of Rights of Holders. Except as set forth in Section 9.2, the death or incapacity of any person having an interest, beneficial or otherwise, in Trust Securities shall not operate to terminate this Trust Agreement, nor dissolve or annul the Trust, nor entitle the legal representatives or heirs of such Person or any Holder for such person, to claim an accounting, take any action or bring any proceeding in any court for a partition or winding up of the arrangements contemplated hereby, nor otherwise affect the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto or any of them. SECTION 12.2. Amendment. (a) This Trust Agreement may be amended from time to time by the Administrative Trustees and the Holders of all of the Common Securities, without the consent of any Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities, (i) to cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision herein that may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Trust Agreement, which shall not be inconsistent with the other provisions of this Trust Agreement, or (ii) to modify, eliminate or add to any provisions of this Trust Agreement to such extent as shall be necessary to ensure that the Trust will not be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes at all times that any Trust Securities are outstanding, to ensure that the Trust will not be required to register as an "investment company" under the 63
Investment Company Act or to ensure the treatment of the Trust Preferred Securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital under the prevailing Federal Reserve rules and regulations; provided, however, that in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), such action shall not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any Holder. Any such amendment shall become effective when notice is given to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. (b) Except as provided in Section 12.2(c), any provision of this Trust Agreement may be amended by the Administrative Trustees, the Property Trustee, and the Holders of all of the Common Securities and with (i) the consent of Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, and (ii) receipt by the Trustees of an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such amendment or the exercise of any power granted to the Trustees or the Administrative Trustees in accordance with such amendment will not affect the Trust's status as a grantor trust or cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes or affect the Trust's exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act. (c) In addition to and notwithstanding any other provision in this Trust Agreement, without the consent of each affected Holder (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this Trust Agreement may not be amended to (i) change the amount or timing of any Distribution on the Trust Securities or otherwise adversely affect the amount of any Distribution required to be made in respect of the Trust Securities as of a specified date, or (ii) restrict the right of a Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such date; and notwithstanding any other provision herein, without the unanimous consent of the Holders (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this paragraph (c) of this Section 12.2 may not be amended. (d) If any proposed amendment to the Trust Agreement provides for, or the Trustees otherwise propose to effect, (i) any action that would adversely affect in any material respect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Trust Preferred Securities, whether by way of amendment to the Trust Agreement or otherwise, or (ii) the dissolution and winding-up of the Trust, other than pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement, then the Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities as a class will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Trust Agreement, no amendment to this Trust Agreement may be made if, as a result of such amendment, it would cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes. (e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, no Trustee shall enter into or consent to any amendment to this Trust Agreement that would cause the Trust to fail or cease to qualify for the exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act or to be taxable as a corporation or to be classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. 64
(f) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on the Sponsor or the Administrative Trustees. (g) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Property Trustee, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities of, the Property Trustee. (h) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Delaware Trustee, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities of, the Delaware Trustee. (i) In the event that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is made, the Administrative Trustees shall promptly provide to the Sponsor and the Property Trustee a copy of such amendment. (j) Neither the Property Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee shall be required to enter into any amendment to this Trust Agreement that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Trust Agreement. The Property Trustee shall be entitled to receive an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is in compliance with this Trust Agreement. SECTION 12.3. Separability. In case any provision in this Trust Agreement or in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 12.4. Governing Law. This Trust Agreement and the rights and obligations of each of the Holders, the Trust, the Sponsor and the Trustees with respect to this Trust Agreement and the Trust Securities shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to its conflicts of laws provisions. SECTION 12.5. Payments Due on Non-Business Day. If the date fixed for any payment on any Trust Security shall be a day that is not a Business Day, then such payment need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as though made on the date fixed for such payment, and no Distributions shall accumulate on such unpaid amount for the period after such date. 65
SECTION 12.6. Successors. This Trust Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Sponsor, the Trust and any Trustee, including any successor by operation of law. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Sponsor that is permitted under Article X of the Base Indenture and pursuant to which the assignee agrees in writing to perform the Sponsor's obligations hereunder, the Sponsor shall not assign its obligations hereunder. SECTION 12.7. Headings. The Article and Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Trust Agreement. SECTION 12.8. Reports, Notices and Demands. Any report, notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon any Holder, the Sponsor or the Sponsor may be given or served in writing by deposit thereof, first-class postage prepaid, in the United States mail, hand delivery or facsimile transmission, in each case, addressed, (a) in the case of a Holder of Trust Preferred Securities, to such Holder as such Holder's name and address may appear on the Securities Register and (b) in the case of the Holder of the Common Securities or the Sponsor, to MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza North, Long Island City, New York 11101, facsimile 212-578-0266, Attention: Treasurer, or to such other address as may be specified in a written notice by the Sponsor to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon a Holder shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, upon hand delivery, mailing or transmission. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common Securities shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common Securities, as the case may be. Any notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon the Trust, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Trust shall be given in writing addressed to such Person as follows: (a) with respect to the Property Trustee, to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, Telephone: (212) 623-5233, Facsimile: (212) 623-6215; (b) with respect to the Delaware Trustee, to Chase Bank USA, National Association, c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE 19713, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services; (c) with respect to the Administrative Trustees, to them at c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention: Institutional Trust Services, facsimile: (302) 552-6280; and (d) with respect to the Trust, to its principal office specified in Section 2.2, with a copy to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Trust, the Delaware Trustee, the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Trust, the Property Trustee or such Administrative Trustee. 66
SECTION 12.9. Agreement Not to Petition. Each of the Trustees and the Sponsor agree for the benefit of the Holders that, until at least one year and one day after the Trust has been dissolved in accordance with Article IX, they shall not file, or join in the filing of, a petition against the Trust under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law (including the United States Bankruptcy Code) (collectively, "Bankruptcy Laws") or otherwise join in the commencement of any proceeding against the Trust under any Bankruptcy Law. If the Sponsor takes action in violation of this Section 12.9, the Property Trustee agrees, for the benefit of Holders, that at the expense of the Sponsor, it shall file an answer with the bankruptcy court or otherwise properly contest the filing of such petition by the Sponsor against the Trust or the commencement of such action and raise the defense that the Sponsor has agreed in writing not to take such action and should be stopped and precluded therefrom and such other defenses, if any, as counsel for the Trustee or the Trust may assert. SECTION 12.10. Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Trust Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this Trust Agreement for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining the rights and obligations hereunder, and this Trust Agreement, the Sponsor and the Property Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the case if this Trust Agreement were qualified under that Act on the date hereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if and to the extent that any provision of this Trust Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. (b) The Property Trustee shall be the only Trustee that is a trustee for the purposes of the Trust Indenture Act. (c) The application of the Trust Indenture Act to this Trust Agreement shall not affect the nature of the Trust Securities as equity securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. SECTION 12.11. Acceptance of Terms of Trust Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Indenture. THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A TRUST SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST THEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A HOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE HOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH TRUST SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST AGREEMENT, THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE TRUST, SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST 67
AGREEMENT SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS. SECTION 12.12. Counterparts. This Trust Agreement may contain more than one counterpart of the signature page and this Trust Agreement may be executed by the affixing of the signature of each of the parties to one of such counterpart signature pages. All of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed a single signature page. [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 68
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust. METLIFE, INC., as Sponsor By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. -------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel -------------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signer CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee By: /s/ John J. Cashin -------------------------------- Name: John J. Cashin Title: Vice-President ANTHONY J. WILLIAMSON as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson -------------------------------- Name: Title: PHILIP SALMON, as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Philip Salmon -------------------------------- Name: Title: 69
THOMAS CURRAN, as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Thomas Curran -------------------------------- Name: Title: 70
STATE OF New York ) ) ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Joseph Prochaska, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) ) ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Anthony J. Williamson, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer 71
(This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) ) ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Philip Salmon, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) ) ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Thomas Curran, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer 72
(This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) ) ss COUNTY OF New York ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State of New York, personally appeared Paul J. Schmalzel, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Emily Fayan (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF Delaware ) ) ss COUNTY OF New Castle ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Delaware, New Castle County, personally appeared John J. Cashin, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Sarika M. Sheth (This area for official notarial seal) 73
CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO CERTIFICATE OF TRUST OF METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II THIS Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II (the "Trust"), is being duly executed and filed by the undersigned trustee to amend the Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated May 17, 2001 (the "Certificate of Trust"), pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (12 Del. C. Section 3801, et seq. (the "Act"). 1. Name. The name of the statutory trust is MetLife Capital Trust II. 2. Amendment to Certificate of Trust. The Certificate of Trust is hereby amended by amending and restating Section 2 thereof in its entirety as follows: "2. Delaware Trustee. The name and business address of the trustee of the Trust with a principal place of business in the State of Delaware is: Chase Manhattan Bank USA, National Association 500 Stanton Christian Road OPSA / 3rd Floor Newark, Delaware 19713 Attn: "Institutional Trust Services" 3. Effective Date. This Certificate of Amendment shall be effective upon filing. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned trustee of the Trust has executed this Certificate of Amendment in accordance with Section 3811(a)(2) of the Act. CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee By: /s/ John J. Cashin ------------------------------------------ Name: John J. Cashin Title: Vice President A-1
EXHIBIT B [FORM OF COMMON SECURITIES CERTIFICATE] THIS CERTIFICATE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW AND SECTION 5.10 OF THE TRUST AGREEMENT Certificate Number _______________ Number of Common Securities _________ Certificate Evidencing Common Securities of MetLife Capital Trust II 6.375% Common Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security) MetLife Capital Trust II, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that ________________ (the "Holder") is the registered owner of _________________ (___________) Common Securities of the Trust representing undivided common beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and designated the 6.375% Common Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security) (the "Common Securities"). Except in accordance with the Trust Agreement (as defined below), the Common Securities are not transferable and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any attempted transfer hereof other than in accordance therewith shall be void. The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Common Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Common Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Common Securities as set forth therein. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. Terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Trust Agreement. B-1
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has executed this certificate this _______ day of ____________, 20__. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee B-2
PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Common Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement. Dated: _______________ ____________________________________ As Property Trustee By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee B-3
EXHIBIT C [FORM OF TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE] [This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is a Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate within the meaning of the Trust Agreement hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or a nominee of a Clearing Agency. This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is exchangeable for Trust Preferred Securities Certificates registered in the name of a person other than the Clearing Agency or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Clearing Agency to a nominee of the Clearing Agency or by a nominee of the Clearing Agency to the Clearing Agency or another nominee of the Clearing Agency, except in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement. Unless this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York Corporation ("DTC"), to MetLife Capital Trust II or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO A PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]1 NO EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OR OTHER PLAN SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), OR SECTION 4975 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") (EACH, A "PLAN"), NO ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" BY REASON OF ANY PLAN'S INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY (A "PLAN ASSET ENTITY"), AND NO PERSON INVESTING "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, MAY ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN, UNLESS SUCH ACQUISITION OR HOLDING WILL NOT RESULT IN A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975, OR SUCH PURCHASER OR HOLDER IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR PROHIBITED TRANSACTION CLASS EXEMPTION ("PTCE") 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING AND, IN THE CASE OF ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER RELYING ON ANY EXEMPTION OTHER THAN PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR REGULATION SECTION 2550.401c-1, HAS COMPLIED WITH ANY REQUEST BY THE SPONSOR OR THE TRUST FOR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF SUCH EXEMPTION. ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER OF THIS TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED BY ITS PURCHASE AND HOLDING HEREOF THAT (A) IT IS NOT A PLAN OR A PLAN ASSET ENTITY AND IS NOT PURCHASING SUCH SECURITIES ON BEHALF OF OR WITH "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, (B) ITS C-1
PURCHASE AND HOLDING OF SUCH SECURITIES WILL NOT RESULT IN A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975, OR (C) IT IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING. - ---------- (1) Insert on Global Certificates only. C-2
Certificate Number __________ Number of Trust Preferred Securities________ CUSIP NO. [-] Certificate Evidencing Series A Trust Preferred Securities of MetLife Capital Trust II 4.82% Series A Trust Preferred Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Securities) MetLife Capital Trust II, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that (the "Holder") is the registered owner of ________________ Trust Preferred Securities of the Trust representing an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust and designated the MetLife Capital Trust II 4.82% Series A Trust Preferred Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Securities) (the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The Trust Preferred Securities are transferable on the books and records of the Trust, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer as provided in the Trust Agreement (as defined below). The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Trust Preferred Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Trust Preferred Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities as set forth therein. The Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Guarantee Agreement"), by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, to the extent provided therein. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has executed this certificate this day of METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee C-3
PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Capital Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement. Dated: _______________ ____________________________________ As Property Trustee By: ________________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee C-4
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Trust Preferred Security to: ________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) (Insert address and zip code of assignee) and irrevocably appoints ____________________ agent to transfer this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate on the books of the Trust. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Date: Signature:__________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate) The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15. C-5

EXHIBIT 4.17 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST OF METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III among METLIFE, INC., as Sponsor, J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee, CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees (as named herein), and the several Holders of the Trust Securities Dated as of June 21, 2005 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXECUTION COPY METLIFE, INC. Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of June 21, 2005 Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be part of the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust. i
TABLE OF CONTENTS ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) iv
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) v
EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust Exhibit B - Form of Common Securities Certificate Exhibit C - Form of Trust Preferred Securities Certificate vi
AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST (the "Trust Agreement"), dated as of June 21, 2005 among (i) MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (including any successors or assigns, the "Sponsor"), (ii) J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as property trustee (in such capacity, the "Property Trustee"), (iii) Chase Bank USA, National Association, a national banking association, as Delaware trustee (in such capacity, the "Delaware Trustee"), and (iv) Anthony J. Williamson, an individual, Philip Salmon, an individual and Thomas Curran, an individual, each of whose address is c/o MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza North, Long Island City, New York 11101 (each, an "Administrative Trustee," and collectively, the "Administrative Trustees") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees being referred to collectively as the "Trustees"), and (v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined. WITNESSETH WHEREAS, the Sponsor and certain of the Trustees have heretofore duly declared and established a statutory trust (the "Trust") pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (as hereinafter defined) by entering into that certain Declaration of Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001 (the "Original Declaration of Trust"), and by the execution and filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Certificate of Trust, filed on May 17, 2001, as amended, attached as Exhibit A hereto (the "Certificate of Trust"); and WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and new trustees were appointed pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of January 16, 2004; WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and appointed pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of June 15, 2005; WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original Declaration of Trust in its entirety as set forth herein to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities by the Trust to the Sponsor, (ii) the issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust as a component of Normal Common Equity Units and their issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, and (iii) the acquisition by the Trust from the Sponsor of all of the right, title and interest in the Debentures; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the other parties and for the benefit of the Holders, hereby amends and restates the Original Declaration of Trust in its entirety and agrees as follows: 1
ARTICLE I DEFINED TERMS Section 1.1 Definitions. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular; All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein; The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation"; All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles; Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a "Section" or an "Exhibit" refers to an Article, a Section or an Exhibit, as the case may be, of or to this Trust Agreement; and The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Trust Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Accreted Liquidation Amount" means per Trust Security (i) through the Reset Date, $1,000 (which is also the Initial Liquidation Amount per Trust Security) and (ii) thereafter, an amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount of a Like Amount of Debentures as determined pursuant to the Indenture (changing as and when such Accreted Principal Amount shall change). "Accreted Principal Amount" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture. "Act" has the meaning specified in Section 6.8. "Additional Amount" means, with respect to Trust Securities of a given Initial Liquidation Amount and/or a given period, the amount of Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) paid by the Sponsor on a Like Amount of Debentures for such period. "Additional Interest" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture. "Administrative Trustee" means each of the individuals identified as an "Administrative Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement solely in such individual's capacity as Administrative Trustee of the Trust and not in such individual's individual capacity, or such Administrative Trustee's successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein provided. 2
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities" means the Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Trust and the Sponsor. "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such Person or any Person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors of such Person. "Bankruptcy Event" means, with respect to any Person: (a) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises judging such Person a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjudication or composition of or in respect of such Person under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (b) the institution by such Person of proceedings to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due and its willingness to be adjudicated a bankrupt, or the taking of corporate action by such Person in furtherance of any such action. "Bankruptcy Laws" has the meaning specified in Section 12.9. "Base Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee. "Board of Directors" of any Person means the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person, or, in the case of a limited liability company issuer of Debentures, the sole member, or a committee designated by the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person (or any such committee), comprised of one or more members of the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such Person or officers of such Person, or both. 3
"Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities, the ownership and transfers of which shall be made through book entries by a Clearing Agency as described in Section 5.11. "Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate evidencing ownership of Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York City are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. "Certificate of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof, as amended from time to time. "Certificate Depository Agreement" means the agreement among the Trust, the Paying Agent and DTC, as the initial Clearing Agency, dated as of the Closing Date. "Clearing Agency" means an organization registered as a "clearing agency" pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act. DTC will be the initial Clearing Agency. "Clearing Agency Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing Agency effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Clearing Agency. "Closing Date" means the "Closing Date" under the Underwriting Agreement. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act or, if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Common Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of Common Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B. "Common Security" means an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, having an Initial Liquidation Amount of $1,000 and having the rights provided therefor in this Trust Agreement, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein. "Common Stock" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. 4
"Corporate Trust Office" means (i) when used with respect to the Property Trustee, the office of the Property Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004, and (ii) when used with respect to the Debenture Trustee, the office of the Debenture Trustee located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004. "Debenture Event of Default" means any "Event of Default" specified in Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture. "Debenture Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Debentures to be redeemed under the Indenture, the date fixed for redemption of such Debentures under the Indenture. "Debentures" means the $927.8 million initial aggregate principal amount of the Sponsor's Series B junior subordinated debt securities, due 2040 issued pursuant to the Indenture (which amount may be increased to $1,067.0 million in connection with the exercise under the Underwriting Agreement by the underwriters named therein of their option to buy additional Common Equity Units). "Debenture Stated Date" means February 15, 2040, unless such date is changed to an earlier date pursuant to Article X. "Debenture Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as provided in the Indenture. "Deferral Period" has the meaning specified in the Indenture. "Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates" means either or both (as the context requires) of (i) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued as Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as provided in Section 5.11, and (ii) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued in certificated, fully registered form as provided in Section 5.13. "Delaware Statutory Trust Act" means Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware Code, 12 Del. C. Section 3801 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. "Delaware Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Delaware Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Delaware Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor Delaware trustee appointed as herein provided. "Distribution Date" has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(iii). "Distribution Period" means each period of time beginning on a Distribution Date (or the Closing Date in the case of the initial Distribution Period) and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date. 5
"Distribution Rate" means (i) from the Closing Date to but not including the earlier of (A) the Reset Date and (B) the Scheduled Redemption Date, 4.91% per annum and (ii) for each Distribution Period commencing on or after the Reset Date, the Reset Rate as determined in accordance with Article X. "Distributions" means amounts payable in respect of the Trust Securities as provided in Section 4.1. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Early Dissolution Event" has the meaning specified in Section 9.2. "Event of Default" means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such event and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): (a) the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default; or (b) default by the Trust in the payment of any Distribution when it becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30 days; or (c) default by the Trust in the payment of any Redemption Price of any Trust Security when it becomes due and payable; or (d) default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of any covenant or warranty of the Trustees in this Trust Agreement (other than those specified in clause (b) or (c) above) and continuation of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Trustees and to the Sponsor by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (e) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to the Property Trustee if a successor Property Trustee has not been appointed within 90 days thereof. "Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a Remarketing, for each Trust Preferred Security being remarketed an amount equal to the amount, if any, by which the proceeds of the Remarketing, net of the Remarketing Agent's Fee, exceed the Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1. "Failed Remarketing" means a Remarketing that is not Successful. 6
"Federal Reserve" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as from time to time constituted, or if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement the Federal Reserve is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Final Failed Remarketing" means the Remarketing on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date in respect of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, if such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing. "Guarantee" means the Guarantee Agreement executed and delivered by the Sponsor and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as guarantee trustee, contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, for the benefit of the holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, as amended from time to time. "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Trust Security or Trust Securities are registered in the Securities Register; any such Person shall be deemed to be a beneficial owner within the meaning of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. "Indenture" means the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, taken together. "Initial Liquidation Amount" means the stated amount of $1,000 per Trust Security. "Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940, or any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Lien" means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, deed of trust, adverse ownership interest, hypothecation, assignment, security interest or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever. "Like Amount" means (a) with respect to a redemption of any Trust Securities, Trust Securities having an Accreted Liquidation Amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount of Debentures to be contemporaneously redeemed in accordance with the Indenture, the proceeds of which will be used to pay the Redemption Price of such Trust Securities, (b) with respect to a distribution of Debentures to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution or liquidation of the Trust, Debentures having an Accreted Principal Amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities of the Holder to whom such Debentures are distributed, and (c) with respect to any distribution of Additional Amounts to Holders of Trust Securities, Debentures having an Accreted Principal Amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities in respect of which such distribution is made. "Liquidation Date" means the date of the dissolution, winding-up or dissolution of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4. "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in Section 9.4(d). "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities" or "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Common Securities" means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, Trust Preferred Securities or Common Securities, as the 7
case may be, representing more than 50% of the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of all then Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities or Common Securities, as the case may be. "Normal Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by any two Authorized Officers of such Person. Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Trust Agreement shall include: (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto; (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by such officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate; (c) a statement that such officer has made such examination or investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor, who shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Relevant Trustee. "Original Declaration of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Trust Agreement. "Outstanding," when used with respect to Trust Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Trust Securities theretofore executed and delivered under this Trust Agreement, except: (a) Trust Securities theretofore canceled by the Property Trustee or delivered to the Property Trustee for cancellation; (b) Trust Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Property Trustee or any Paying Agent; provided that, if such Trust Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Trust Agreement; and (c) Trust Securities that have been paid or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Trust Preferred Securities have been executed and delivered pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.5 and 5.11; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Accreted 8
Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Trust Preferred Securities owned by the Sponsor, any Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Sponsor or any Trustee shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that (a) in determining whether any Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Trust Preferred Securities that such Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded, and (b) the foregoing shall not apply at any time when all of the outstanding Trust Preferred Securities are owned by the Sponsor, one or more of the Trustees, and/or any such Affiliate. Trust Preferred Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrative Trustees the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Trust Preferred Securities and that the pledgee is not the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Trust Preferred Securities that are a component of Normal Common Equity Units and pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreement shall not be deemed to be not Outstanding only by reason of such pledge. "Owner" means each Person who is the beneficial owner of Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities as reflected in the records of the Clearing Agency or, if a Clearing Agency Participant is not the Owner, then as reflected in the records of a Person maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or indirectly, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency). "Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a Remarketing, an amount for each Trust Preferred Securities being remarketed equal to 100% of its Accreted Liquidation Amount. "Paying Agent" means any paying agent or co-paying agent appointed pursuant to Section 5.9 and shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. "Payment Account" means a segregated non-interest-bearing corporate trust account maintained by the Property Trustee (in its corporate capacity and not as Property Trustee) in its trust department for the benefit of the Holders in which all amounts paid in respect of the Debentures will be held and from which the Property Trustee, through the Paying Agent, shall make payments to the Holders in accordance with Sections 4.1 and 4.2. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature. "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Sponsor, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders (as defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement) of the Stock Purchase Contracts, as amended or supplemented from time to time. 9
"Property Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Property Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Property Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor property trustee appointed as herein provided. "Put Consideration" has the meaning specified in Section 10.5(a). "Put Right" has the meaning specified in Section 10.05(a). "Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Trust Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Trust Agreement; provided that each Debenture Redemption Date and the stated maturity of the Debentures shall be a Redemption Date for a Like Amount of Trust Securities. "Redemption Price" means, with respect to any Trust Security, the Accreted Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security, plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions to the Redemption Date, plus the related amount of the premium, if any, paid by the Sponsor upon the concurrent redemption of a Like Amount of Debentures. "Relevant Trustee" shall have the meaning specified in Section 8.10. "Remarketing" means a remarketing of Trust Preferred Securities pursuant to Article X and the related Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agent" means, as to a Remarketing and related Remarketing Agreement, the remarketing agent and any successor or replacement remarketing agent appointed by the Sponsor and the Trust pursuant to Section 10.1. "Remarketing Agent's Fee" means, as to the Remarketing Agent and a Remarketing, the fee provided for in the related Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agreement" means, with respect to a Remarketing, the remarketing agreement entered into among the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 10.1 with respect to such Remarketing of Trust Preferred Securities. "Remarketing Date" means, as to a Remarketing Settlement Date, the third Business Day immediately preceding such Remarketing Settlement Date. "Remarketing Purchase Date" means a Reset Date on which the Trust is required to purchase the Trust Preferred Securities, subject to and in accordance with Section 10.5. "Remarketing Settlement Date" means each of the First Remarketing Settlement Date, the Second Remarketing Settlement Date, the Third Remarketing Settlement Date in respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities as specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Reset Cap", as of any Remarketing Settlement Date, means the prevailing market yield, as determined by the Remarketing Agent, of the benchmark U.S. treasury security having a remaining maturity that most closely corresponds to the period from such date until the 10
Scheduled Redemption Date (after giving effect to any change in the Scheduled Redemption Date being made pursuant to Article X on the Remarketing Settlement Date if the Remarketing is Successful), plus 350 basis points per annum. "Reset Date" means the first date that is a Remarketing Settlement Date on which a Successful Remarketing occurs. "Reset Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(a). "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to any Trustee, the President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer of such Trustee or any other officer of such Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of or familiarity with the particular subject. "Scheduled Redemption Date" means August 15, 2040 or, if such date is changed to an earlier date in accordance with Article X, such earlier date. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time. "Securities Intermediary" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Agreement. "Securities Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 5.4. "Separate Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units. "Sponsor" has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Trust Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as stock purchase contract agent and any successor thereto as stock purchase contract agent, under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Sponsor and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as amended or supplemented from time to time. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. 11
"Stripped Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. "Successful" means, as to a Remarketing, that the Remarketing is conducted in accordance with Article X and the Remarketing Agent finds buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Remarketing Date. "Supplemental Indenture" means the Second Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee. "Time of Delivery" means June 21, 2005. "Trust" means the Delaware statutory trust known as "MetLife Capital Trust III" which was created under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to the Original Declaration of Trust and the filing of the Certificate of Trust, and continued pursuant to this Trust Agreement. "Trust Agreement" means this Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, including (i) all exhibits, and (ii) for all purposes of this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, respectively. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in force at the date as of which this Trust Agreement was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended. "Trust Preferred Securities" means the series of securities known as the "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" of the Trust. "Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of Trust Preferred Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C. "Trust Property" means (a) the Debentures, (b) any cash on deposit in, or owing to, the Payment Account, and (c) all proceeds and rights in respect of the foregoing and any other property and assets for the time being held or deemed to be held by the Property Trustee pursuant to the trusts of this Trust Agreement. "Trust Securities Certificate" means any one of the Common Securities Certificates or the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. "Trust Security" means any one of the Common Securities or the Trust Preferred Securities. "Trustees" means, collectively, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees. 12
"Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated June 15, 2005, among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust II and the several underwriters named in Schedule I (the "Underwriters") to the Pricing Agreement dated June 15, 2005 among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust III and the Underwriters. "Vice President," when used with respect to the Sponsor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president." ARTICLE II CONTINUATION OF THE TRUST SECTION 2.1. Name. The trust continued hereby shall be known as "MetLife Capital Trust III" as such name may be modified from time to time by the Administrative Trustees following written notice to the Holders and the other Trustees, in which name the Administrative Trustees and the other Trustees may conduct the business of the Trust, make and execute contracts and other instruments on behalf of the Trust and sue and be sued on behalf of the Trust. SECTION 2.2. Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business. The address of the Delaware Trustee in the State of Delaware is c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE 19713, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other address in the State of Delaware as the Delaware Trustee may designate by written notice to the Sponsor, the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. The principal executive office of the Trust is c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention: Institutional Trust Services. SECTION 2.3. Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Organizational Expenses. The Trustees acknowledge receipt from the Sponsor in connection with the Original Declaration of Trust of the sum of $10, which constituted the initial Trust Property. The Sponsor shall pay organizational expenses of the Trust as they arise or shall, upon request of any Trustee, promptly reimburse such Trustee for any such expenses paid by such Trustee. The Sponsor shall not make any claim upon the Trust Property for the payment of such expenses. SECTION 2.4. Issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities. On June 15, 2005, the Sponsor, on behalf of the Trust, executed and delivered the Underwriting Agreement. Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, in connection with the execution and delivery on such date of 82,800,000 Normal Common Equity Units to the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Securities Intermediary a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with the form of assignment attached thereto executed in blank, in an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of $1,035,000,000, against payment of 13
$1,035,000,000 as the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which funds such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee or its designee. SECTION 2.5. Issuance of the Common Securities; Subscription and Purchase Debentures. Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Sponsor a Common Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the Sponsor, evidencing 32,010 Common Securities having an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of $32,010,000 against payment by the Sponsor of the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which amount such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee or its designee. Contemporaneously therewith, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall subscribe to and purchase from the Sponsor the Debentures registered in the name of the Trust and having an aggregate initial principal amount equal to $1,067,010,000 and shall deliver to the Sponsor the purchase price therefor (being the sum of the amounts delivered to the Property Trustee pursuant to (i) the second sentence of Section 2.4 and (ii) the first sentence of this Section 2.5). SECTION 2.6. Trust Agreement. The exclusive purposes and functions of the Trust are (a) to issue and sell Trust Securities, (b) to use the proceeds from such sale to acquire the Debentures, and (c) to engage in those activities necessary or incidental thereto. The Sponsor hereby appoints the Trustees as trustees of the Trust, to have all the rights, powers and duties to the extent set forth herein, and the Trustees hereby accept such appointment. The Property Trustee hereby declares that it will hold the Trust Property upon and subject to the conditions set forth herein for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders. The Administrative Trustees shall have all rights, powers and duties set forth herein and in accordance with applicable law with respect to accomplishing the purposes of the Trust. The Delaware Trustee shall be one of the trustees of the Trust for the sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807(a) of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and for taking such actions as are required to be taken by a Delaware trustee under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 2.7. Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions. (a) The Trustees shall conduct the affairs of the Trust in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement. Subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, and in accordance with the following provisions (i) and (ii), the Trustees shall have the authority to enter into all transactions and agreements determined by the Trustees to be appropriate in exercising the authority, express or implied, otherwise granted to the Trustees under this Trust Agreement, and to perform all acts in furtherance thereof, including the following: (i) As among the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees, and each of them, shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: 14
(A) the issuance and sale of the Trust Securities; (B) to cause the Trust to enter into, and to execute, deliver and perform on behalf of the Trust the common securities purchase agreement and to cause the Trust to enter into, and to execute, deliver and perform on behalf of the Trust the Certificate Depository Agreement and such other agreements as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the purposes and function of the Trust; (C) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under Remarketing Agreements entered into pursuant to Article X and, except as otherwise expressly provided in Article X, cause the Trust to take such actions with respect to Remarketings as are provided for in Article X or as may be necessary or, as determined by the Administrative Trustees, useful in connection with Remarketings; (D) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities; (E) assisting in the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities under the Securities Act and under state securities or blue sky laws, and the qualification of this Trust Agreement under the Trust Indenture Act; (F) assisting in the listing of the Trust Preferred Securities upon such securities exchange or exchanges, if any, as shall be determined by the Sponsor, with the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities under the Exchange Act, if required, and with the preparation and filing of all periodic and other reports and other documents pursuant to the foregoing; (G) assisting in the sending of notices (other than notices of default) and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (H) the appointment of a Paying Agent and Securities Registrar in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (I) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust and the execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware; (J) execution of the Trust Securities on behalf of the Trust in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (K) execution and delivery of closing certificates, if any, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and any Remarketing Agreement and application for a taxpayer identification number for the Trust; (L) unless otherwise required by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the Trust Indenture Act or other applicable law, to execute on behalf of the Trust (either acting 15
alone or together with any or all of the Administrative Trustees) any documents that the Administrative Trustees have the power to execute pursuant to this Trust Agreement; (M) the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as the Trustees may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement; and (N) the preparation, execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. (ii) As among the Trustees, the Property Trustee shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: (A) the establishment of the Payment Account; (B) the receipt of the Debentures; (C) to authenticate the Trust Securities Certificates; (D) the collection of interest, principal and any other payments or instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) made in respect of the Debentures and the holding of such amounts in the Payment Account; (E) the distribution through the Paying Agent of amounts or property or instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) distributable to the Holders in respect of the Trust Securities; (F) the exercise of all of the rights, powers and privileges of a holder of the Debentures; (G) the sending of notices of default and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement; (H) the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement; (I) acting as Paying Agent and/or Security Registrar to the extent appointed under this Trust Agreement; (J) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust; and (K) after an Event of Default (other than under paragraph (b),(c), (d) or (e) of the definition of such term if such Event of Default is by or with respect to the Property Trustee), and subject to the provisions of Article VIII, the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust 16
Agreement and protect and conserve the Trust Property for the benefit of the Holders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any particular Holder). Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.7(a)(ii), the Property Trustee shall have none of the duties, liabilities, powers or the authority of the Administrative Trustees set forth in Section 2.7(a)(i). (b) So long as this Trust Agreement remains in effect, the Trust (or the Trustees acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in their respective capacities as Trustees) shall not undertake any business, activities or transactions except as expressly provided herein or contemplated hereby. In particular, the Trustees (acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in their respective capacities as Trustees) shall not (i) acquire any investments or engage in any activities not authorized by this Trust Agreement, (ii) sell, assign, transfer, exchange, mortgage, pledge, set-off or otherwise dispose of any of the Trust Property or interests therein, including to Holders, except as expressly provided herein, (iii) take any action that would reasonably be expected to cause the Trust to become taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes, (iv) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or issue any other debt, (v) take or consent to any action that would result in the placement of a Lien on any of the Trust Property, (vi) invest any proceeds received by the Trust from holding the Debentures, but shall distribute all such proceeds to Holders of Trust Securities pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement and of the Trust Securities, (vii) acquire any assets other than the Trust Property, (viii) possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the Trust Property, (ix) possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the terms of the Trust Securities in any way whatsoever (except to the extent expressly authorized in this Trust Agreement or by the terms of the Trust Securities) or (x) issue any securities or other evidences of beneficial ownership of, or beneficial interest in, the Trust other than the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall defend all claims and demands of all Persons at any time claiming any Lien on any of the Trust Property adverse to the interest of the Trust or the Holders in their capacity as Holders. (c) In connection with the issuance and sale of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Sponsor shall have the right and, if the Sponsor shall desire that the actions be taken, the responsibility to assist the Trust with respect to, or effect on behalf of the Trust, the following (and any actions taken by the Sponsor in furtherance of the following prior to the date of this Trust Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects): (i) the preparation and filing by the Trust with the Commission of and the execution on behalf of the Trust of a registration statement on the appropriate form in relation to the Trust Preferred Securities, including any amendments thereto; (ii) the determination of the states in which to take appropriate action to qualify or register for sale all or part of the Trust Preferred Securities and the determination of any and all such acts, other than actions that must be taken by or on behalf of the Trust, and the advice to the Trust of actions they must take on behalf of the Trust, and the preparation for execution and filing of any documents to be 17
executed and filed by the Trust or on behalf of the Trust, as the Sponsor deems necessary or advisable in order to comply with the applicable laws of any such states; (iii) the preparation for filing by the Trust and execution on behalf of the Trust of an application to the New York Stock Exchange or any other national stock exchange or the Nasdaq National Market or any other automated quotation system for listing upon notice of issuance of any Trust Preferred Securities and filing with such exchange or self-regulatory organization such notification and documents as may be necessary from time to time to maintain such listing; (iv) the negotiation of the terms of, and the execution and delivery of, the Underwriting Agreement providing for the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities; and (v) the taking of any other actions necessary or desirable to carryout any of the foregoing activities. (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Administrative Trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs of the Trust and to operate the Trust so that the Trust will not be deemed to be an "investment company" required to be registered under the Investment Company Act, and will not be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes and so that the Debentures will be treated as indebtedness of the Sponsor for United States Federal income tax purposes. In this connection, the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees are authorized to take any action, not inconsistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Trust or this Trust Agreement, that they determine in their discretion to be necessary or desirable for such purposes, as long as such action does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities. In no event shall the Sponsor or the Trustees be liable to the Trust or the Holders for any failure to comply with this Section that results from a change in law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof. SECTION 2.8. Assets of Trust. The assets of the Trust shall consist solely of the Trust Property. SECTION 2.9. Title to Trust Property. Legal title to all Trust Property shall be vested at all times in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) and shall be held and administered by the Property Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement. 18
ARTICLE III PAYMENT ACCOUNT SECTION 3.1. Payment Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Property Trustee shall establish the Payment Account. The Property Trustee and its agents shall have exclusive control and sole right of withdrawal with respect to the Payment Account for the purpose of making deposits in and withdrawals from the Payment Account in accordance with this Trust Agreement. All monies and other property deposited or held from time to time in the Payment Account shall be held by the Property Trustee in the Payment Account for the exclusive benefit of the Holders and for distribution as herein provided, including (and subject to) any priority of payments provided for herein. (b) The Property Trustee shall deposit in the Payment Account, promptly upon receipt, all payments of principal of or interest on, and any other payments or proceeds with respect to, the Debentures. Amounts held in the Payment Account shall not be invested by the Property Trustee pending distribution thereof. ARTICLE IV DISTRIBUTIONS; REDEMPTION SECTION 4.1. Distributions. (a) The Trust Securities represent undivided beneficial interests in the Trust Property, and Distributions (including of Additional Amounts) will be made on the Trust Securities at the rate and on the dates that payments of interest (including Additional Interest, as defined in the Indenture) are made on the Debentures. Accordingly: (i) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be cumulative and will accumulate from the Time of Delivery as and when interest accrues on the Debentures. (ii) Distributions shall accumulate on the Trust Securities for each Distribution Period at the Distribution Rate for such Distribution Period. (iii) Distributions payable in cash will be payable quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005, to and including the Stock Purchase Date, and on and after the Stock Purchase Date, Distributions payable in cash, if any, will be payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15 or May 15 and November 15, as applicable, with the first such semi-annual distribution date, if any, occurring on a date that is six months after the Stock Purchase Date (each such date a "Distribution Date"), in each case subject to the Trust having funds available for such Distributions. (iv) For Distribution Periods commencing on or after the Stock Purchase Date, Distributions will accrete at the Distribution Rate instead of being paid in cash (with the amount of accretion on any date for each Trust Security being 19
equal to the amount of accretion on a Like Amount of Debentures), unless the Sponsor elects to pay interest on the Debentures in cash pursuant to Section 10.2 or the Stock Purchase Date is August 15, 2010 and the Remarketing for settlement on such date is a Failed Remarketing. (v) If any date which is otherwise a Distribution Date pursuant to paragraph (iii) above is not a Business Day, then the payment of cash Distributions on such Distribution Date, if applicable, shall be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay), with the same force and effect as if made on the date on which such payment was originally payable; provided, however, that if the next succeeding Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then the payment of cash distributions shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day. (vi) Distributions shall be payable in cash on each Distribution Date on which the Sponsor is obligated to pay interest on the Debentures in cash, and the amount of such cash Distribution (net of any withholding tax required by law to be withheld on such payments which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) on the Accredited Liquidation Amount of each Trust Security shall equal the amount of interest payable in cash on such Distribution Date on a Like Amount of Debentures. IRS Circular 230 disclosure: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this communication (including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed herein. (vii) The amount of Distributions payable for any Distribution Period shall include the Additional Amounts, if any. (viii) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be made by the Property Trustee from the Payment Account and shall be payable on each Distribution Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Distributions. (b) Distributions in cash on the Trust Securities with respect to a Distribution Date shall be payable to the Holders thereof as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities at the close of business on the relevant record date for such Distribution Date, which shall be the first date of the month in which the relevant Distribution Date falls. Distributions payable on any Trust Securities that are not punctually paid on any Distribution Date will cease to be payable to the Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the relevant record date, and such defaulted Distribution will instead be payable to the Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the special record date or other specified date for determining Holders entitled to such defaulted interest established in accordance with the Indenture. 20
SECTION 4.2. Redemption. (a) On each Debenture Redemption Date and on the Debenture Stated Maturity Date, the Trust will be required to redeem a Like Amount of Trust Securities at the Redemption Price. (b) Upon receipt of notice of a Debenture Redemption Date, notice of redemption of a Like Amount of Trust Securities shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date to each Holder of Trust Securities to be redeemed, at such Holder's address appearing in the Security Register. All notices of redemption shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the Redemption Price or if the Redemption Price cannot be calculated prior to the time the notice is required to be sent, the estimate of the Redemption Price together with a statement that it is an estimate and that the actual Redemption Price will be calculated on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date (and if an estimate is provided, a further notice shall be sent of the actual Redemption Price on the date that such Redemption Price is calculated); (iii) the CUSIP number or CUSIP numbers of the Trust Preferred Securities affected; (iv) if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed, the identification and/or the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the particular Trust Securities to be redeemed; (v) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Trust Security to be redeemed and that Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate on and after said date, except as provided in Section 4.2(d) below; and (vi) if the Trust Preferred Securities are not in book-entry-only form, the place or places where the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are to be surrendered for the payment of the Redemption Price. (c) The Trust Securities redeemed on each Redemption Date shall be redeemed at the Redemption Price with the proceeds from the contemporaneous redemption or payment at the Debenture Stated Maturity Date of the Debentures. Redemptions of the Trust Securities shall be made and the Redemption Price shall be payable on each Redemption Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Redemption Price. (d) If the Property Trustee gives a notice of redemption in respect of any Trust Preferred Securities, then, by 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Redemption Date, subject to Section 4.2(c), the Property Trustee will, with respect to Book-Entry Trust 21
Preferred Securities, irrevocably deposit with the Clearing Agency for such Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give such Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. With respect to Trust Preferred Securities that are not Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee, subject to Section 4.2(c), will irrevocably deposit with the Paying Agent, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give the Paying Agent irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities upon surrender of their Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Distributions payable on or prior to the Redemption Date for any Trust Securities called for redemption shall be payable to the Holders of such Trust Securities as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities on the relevant record dates for the related Distribution Dates. If notice of redemption shall have been given and funds deposited as required, then upon the date of such deposit, all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities so called for redemption will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive the Redemption Price and any Distribution payable in respect of the Trust Securities on or prior to the Redemption Date, but without interest, and such Trust Securities will cease to be outstanding. In the event that any date on which any Redemption Price is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), with the same force and effect as if made on such date. In the event that payment of the Redemption Price in respect of any Trust Securities called for redemption is improperly withheld or refused and not paid either by the Trust or by the Sponsor pursuant to the Guarantee, Distributions on such Trust Securities will continue to accumulate, as set forth in Section 4.1, from the Redemption Date originally established by the Trust for such Trust Securities to the date such Redemption Price is actually paid, in which case the actual payment date will be the date fixed for redemption for purposes of calculating the Redemption Price. (e) Subject to Section 4.3(a), if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed on a Redemption Date, then the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Securities to be redeemed shall be allocated pro rata to the Common Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities based upon the relative Accreted Liquidation Amounts of such classes. The particular Trust Preferred Securities to be redeemed shall be selected on a pro rata basis based upon their respective Accreted Liquidation Amounts not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Property Trustee from the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities not previously called for redemption by any method the Property Trustee deems fair and appropriate, provided that so long as the Trust Preferred Securities are in book-entry-only form, such selection shall be made in accordance with the customary procedures for the Clearing Agency for the Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall promptly notify the Securities Registrar in writing of the Trust Preferred Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities selected for partial redemption, the Accreted Liquidation Amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Trust Preferred 22
Securities shall relate, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities that has been or is to be redeemed. SECTION 4.3. Subordination of Common Securities. (a) Payment of Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, the Redemption Price of, and the Liquidation Distribution in respect of, the Trust Securities, as applicable, shall be made, subject to Section 4.2(e), pro rata among the Common Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities based on the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities; provided, however, that if on any Distribution Date, Redemption Date or Liquidation Date any Event of Default resulting from a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing, no payment of any Distribution (including any Additional Amounts) on, Redemption Price of, or Liquidation Distribution in respect of, any Common Security, and no other payment on account of the redemption, liquidation or other acquisition of Common Securities, shall be made unless payment in full in cash of all accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities for all Distribution Periods terminating on or prior thereto, or in the case of payment of the Redemption Price the full amount of such Redemption Price on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities then called for redemption, or in the case of payment of the Liquidation Distribution the full amount of such Liquidation Distribution on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities, shall have been made or provided for, and all funds immediately available to the Property Trustee shall first be applied to the payment in full in cash of all Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, or the Redemption Price of, the Trust Preferred Securities then due and payable. (b) In the case of the occurrence of any Event of Default resulting from any Debenture Event of Default, the Holders of the Common Securities shall have no right to act with respect to any such Event of Default under this Trust Agreement until the effect of all such Events of Default with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been cured, waived or otherwise eliminated. Until all such Events of Default under this Trust Agreement with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been so cured, waived or otherwise eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act solely on behalf of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and not on behalf of the Holders of the Common Securities, and only the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities will have the right to direct the Property Trustee to act on their behalf. SECTION 4.4. Payment Procedures. Payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or, if the Trust Preferred Securities are held by a Clearing Agency, such Distributions shall be made to the Clearing Agency by wire transfer of immediately available funds. A Holder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities may 23
receive payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) by wire transfer of immediately available funds upon written request to the Property Trustee not later than the 15th calendar day, whether or not a Business Day, before the relevant Distribution Date. Payments in respect of the Common Securities shall be made in such manner as shall be mutually agreed between the Property Trustee and the Holders of the Common Securities. SECTION 4.5. Tax Returns and Reports. The Administrative Trustees shall prepare (or cause to be prepared), at the Sponsor's expense, and file all United States Federal, state and local tax and information returns and reports required to be filed by or in respect of the Trust. In this regard, the Administrative Trustees shall (a) prepare and file (or cause to be prepared and filed) all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be filed in respect of the Trust in each taxable year of the Trust, and (b) prepare and furnish (or cause to be prepared and furnished) to each Holder all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be provided by the Trust. The Administrative Trustees shall provide the Sponsor and the Property Trustee with a copy of all such returns and reports promptly after such filing or furnishing. The Trustees shall comply with United States Federal withholding and backup withholding tax laws and information reporting requirements with respect to any payments to Holders under the Trust Securities. SECTION 4.6. Payment of Expenses of the Trust. The Sponsor shall pay to the Trust, and reimburse the Trust for, the full amount of any costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust (other than obligations of the Trust to pay the Holders of any Trust Preferred Securities or other similar interests in the Trust the amounts due such Holders pursuant to the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or such other similar interests, as the case may be), including, without limitation, any taxes, duties or other governmental charges of whatever nature (other than withholding taxes) imposed on the Trust by the United States or any other taxing authority. Such payment obligation includes any such costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust that are required by applicable law to be satisfied in connection with a dissolution of the Trust. SECTION 4.7. Payments under Indenture or Pursuant to Direct Actions. Any amount payable hereunder to any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities (or any Owner with respect thereto) shall be reduced by the amount of any corresponding payment such Holder (or Owner) has directly received pursuant to Section 6.3 of the Supplemental Indenture or Section 5.14 of this Trust Agreement. ARTICLE V TRUST SECURITIES CERTIFICATES SECTION 5.1. Initial Ownership. Upon the formation of the Trust and the contribution by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 2.3 and until the issuance of the Trust Securities, and at any time during which no Trust Securities are outstanding, the Sponsor shall be the sole beneficial owner of the Trust. 24
SECTION 5.2. The Trust Securities Certificates. The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall be issued in minimum denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, and the Common Securities Certificates shall be issued in denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples thereof. The Trust Securities Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Trust by manual signature of at least one Administrative Trustee. Trust Securities Certificates bearing the manual signatures of individuals who were, at the time when such signatures shall have been affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Trust or the Property Trustee shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust, and entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them shall have ceased to be so authorized prior to the delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates. A transferee of a Trust Securities Certificate shall become a Holder, and shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations of a Holder hereunder, upon due registration of such Trust Securities Certificate in such transferee's name pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.11 or 5.13. SECTION 5.3. Execution, Authentication and Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates. At the Time of Delivery, at least one of the Administrative Trustees shall cause Trust Securities Certificates, in an aggregate Liquidation Amount as provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.5, to be executed on behalf of the Trust and delivered to or upon the written order of the Sponsor, such written order executed by one Authorized Officer thereof, without further corporate action by the Sponsor, in authorized denominations. From time to time, an Administrative may deliver Trust Securities Certificates executed by an Administrative Trustee to the Property Trustee for authentication, together with a written order executed by an Authorized Officer of the sponsor for authentication of such Certificates. No Trust Securities Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Trust Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Trust Securities Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Trust Securities Certificate shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Trust Securities Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. SECTION 5.4. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. The Sponsor shall keep or cause to be kept, at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, a register or registers for the purpose of registering Trust Securities Certificates and transfers and exchanges of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates (the "Securities Register") in which the registrar designated by the Sponsor (the "Securities Registrar"), subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, shall provide for the registration of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and Common Securities Certificates (subject to Section 5.10 in the case of the Common Securities Certificates) and registration of transfers and exchanges of Trust 25
Preferred Securities Certificates as herein provided. J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association shall be the initial Securities Registrar. The provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property Trustee also in its role as Securities Registrar, for so long as the Property Trustee shall act as Securities Registrar. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, the Administrative Trustees or any one of them shall execute on behalf of the Trust and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount dated the date of execution by such Administrative Trustee or Trustees. The Securities Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of any Trust Preferred Securities that have been called for redemption during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection for such redemption. At the option of a Holder, Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be exchanged for other Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of the same class and of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount upon surrender of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to be exchanged at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8. Every Trust Preferred Securities Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to an Administrative Trustee and the Securities Registrar duly executed by the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing. Each Trust Preferred Securities Certificate surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be canceled and subsequently disposed of by an Administrative Trustee in accordance with such Person's customary practice. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, but the Securities Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. SECTION 5.5. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates. If (a) any mutilated Trust Securities Certificate shall be surrendered to the Securities Registrar, or if the Securities Registrar shall receive evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Securities Certificate, and (b) there shall be delivered to the Securities Registrar and the Administrative Trustees such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then in the absence of notice that such Trust Securities Certificate shall have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, on behalf of the Trust shall execute and make available for delivery, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Securities Certificate, a new Trust Securities Certificate of like class, tenor and denomination. In connection with the issuance of any new Trust Securities Certificate under this Section 5.5, the Administrative Trustees or the Securities Registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Any duplicate Trust Securities Certificate issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute conclusive evidence of an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust corresponding to 26
that evidenced by the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate, as if originally issued, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate shall be found at any time. SECTION 5.6. Persons Deemed Holders. The Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall each treat the Person in whose name any Trust Securities Certificate shall be registered in the Securities Register as the owner of such Trust Securities Certificate for the purpose of receiving Distributions and for all other purposes whatsoever, and none of the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall be bound by any notice to the contrary. SECTION 5.7. Access to List of Holders' Names and Addresses. Each Holder and each Owner shall be deemed to have agreed not to hold the Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative Trustees accountable by reason of the disclosure of its name and address, regardless of the source from which such information was derived. SECTION 5.8. Maintenance of Office Agency. The Administrative Trustees shall designate an office or offices or agency or agencies where Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Trustees in respect of the Trust Securities Certificates may be served. The Administrative Trustees initially designate J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, as their office and agency for such purposes. An Administrative Trustee shall give prompt written notice to the Sponsor, the Property Trustees and to the Holders of any change in the location of the Securities Register or any such office or agency. SECTION 5.9. Appointment of Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall make Distributions to Holders from the Payment Account and shall report the amounts of such Distributions to the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. Any Paying Agent shall have the revocable power to withdraw funds from the Payment Account solely for the purpose of making the Distributions referred to above. The Property Trustee may revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent in its sole discretion. The Paying Agent shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. Any Person acting as Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying Agent upon 30 days' written notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee. If the Property Trustee shall no longer be the Paying Agent or a successor Paying Agent shall resign or its authority to act be revoked, the Administrative Trustees shall appoint a successor (which shall be a bank or trust company) that is reasonably acceptable to the Sponsor to act as Paying Agent. Such successor Paying Agent or any additional Paying Agent shall execute and deliver to the Trustees an instrument in which such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustees that as Paying Agent, such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent will hold all sums, if any, held by it for payment to the Holders in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Holders. The Paying Agent shall return all unclaimed funds to the Property Trustee and upon removal of a Paying Agent such Paying Agent 27
shall also return all funds in its possession to the Property Trustee. The provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property Trustee also in its role as Paying Agent, for so long as the Property Trustee shall act as Paying Agent and, to the extent applicable, to any other paying agent appointed hereunder. Any reference in this Agreement to the Paying Agent shall include any co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise. SECTION 5.10. Ownership of Common Securities by Sponsor. At the Time of Delivery, the Sponsor shall acquire beneficial and record ownership of the Common Securities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, other than a transfer in connection with a consolidation or merger of the Sponsor into another Person, or any conveyance, transfer or lease by the Sponsor of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person pursuant to Section 10.01 of the Base Indenture, any attempted transfer of the Common Securities other than to a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Sponsor shall be void. The Administrative Trustees shall cause each Common Securities Certificate issued to the Sponsor to contain a legend consistent with this Section 5.10. SECTION 5.11. Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificate. (a) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units and are released from the Collateral Account (as defined in the Pledge Agreement), will be issued in the form of a typewritten Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates representing Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, to be delivered to, or on behalf of, DTC, the initial Clearing Agency, by, or on behalf of, the Trust. Such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates shall initially be registered on the Securities Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the initial Clearing Agency, and no Owner will receive a Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificate representing such Owner's interest in such Trust Preferred Securities, except as provided in Section 5.13. Except where Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates have been issued to the Securities Intermediary or to Owners pursuant to Section 5.13: (i) the provisions of this Section 5.11(a) shall be in full force and effect; (ii) the Securities Registrar and the Trustees shall be entitled to deal with the Clearing Agency for all purposes of this Trust Agreement relating to the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates (including the payment of the Liquidation Amount of and Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and the giving of instructions or directions to Owners of Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates) as the sole Holder of Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and shall have no obligations to the Owners thereof; 28
(iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section 5.11 conflict with any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, the provisions of this Section 5.11 shall control; and (iv) the rights of the Owners of the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate shall be exercised only through the Clearing Agency and shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Owners and the Clearing Agency and/or the Clearing Agency Participants. Pursuant to the Certificate Depository Agreement, unless and until Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are issued pursuant to Section 5.13, the initial Clearing Agency will make book-entry transfers among the Clearing Agency Participants and receive and transmit payments on the Trust Preferred Securities to such Clearing Agency Participants. (b) A single Common Securities Certificate representing the Common Securities shall be issued to the Sponsor in the form of a definitive Common Securities Certificate. SECTION 5.12. Notices to Clearing Agency. To the extent that a notice or other communication to the Holders is required under this Trust Agreement, for so long as Trust Preferred Securities are represented by a Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, the Trustee shall give all such notices and communications specified herein to be given to the Clearing Agency, and shall have no obligations to the Owners. SECTION 5.13. Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates. The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery and upon the underwriters' exercise of their over-allotment option, as contemplated by Section 2.4, shall be issued as Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in accordance with Section 2.4. Additionally, if (a) the Sponsor advises the Trustees in writing that the Clearing Agency is no longer willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, and the Sponsor is unable to locate a qualified successor, (b) the Sponsor at its option advises the Trustees in writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing Agency or (c) after the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default, Owners of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates representing beneficial interests aggregating at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities advise the Administrative Trustees in writing that the continuation of a book-entry system through the Clearing Agency is no longer in the best interest of the Owners of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, then the Administrative Trustees shall notify the other Trustees and the Clearing Agency, and the Clearing Agency, in accordance with its customary rules and procedures, shall notify all Clearing Agency Participants for whom it holds Trust Preferred Securities of the occurrence of any such event and of the availability of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to Owners of such class or classes, as applicable, requesting the same. Upon surrender to the Administrative Trustees of the typewritten Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates representing the Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates by the Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration instructions, the Administrative Trustees, or any 29
one of them, shall execute the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in accordance with the instructions of the Clearing Agency. Neither the Securities Registrar nor the Trustees shall be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions. Upon the issuance of Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, the Trustees shall recognize the Holders of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as holders of Trust Securities. The Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall be typewritten, printed, lithographed or engraved or may be produced in any other manner as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees that meets the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Trust Preferred Securities are then listed or approved for trading, as evidenced by the execution thereof by the Administrative Trustees or any one of them. SECTION 5.14. Rights of Holders; Waivers of Past Defaults. (a) The legal title to the Trust Property is vested exclusively in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) in accordance with Section 2.9, and the Holders shall not have any right or title therein other than the undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust conferred by their Trust Securities and they shall have no right to call for any partition or division of property, profits or rights of the Trust except as described below. The Trust Securities shall be personal property giving only the rights specifically set forth therein and in this Trust Agreement. The Trust Preferred Securities shall have no preemptive or similar rights and when issued and delivered to Holders against payment of the purchase price therefor will be fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. The Holders of the Trust Securities, in their capacities as such, shall be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (b) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain Outstanding, if, upon a Debenture Event of Default, the Debenture Trustee fails or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Debentures fail to declare the principal of all of the Debentures to be immediately due and payable, the Property Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding shall have the right to make such declaration by a notice in writing to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee and the Property Trustee, in the case of notice by the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, or to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee and the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, in the case of notice by the Property Trustee, and upon any such declaration such principal amount of and the accrued interest on all of the Debentures shall become immediately due and payable, provided that the payment of principal and interest on such Debentures shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in the Indenture. At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Debentures has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Debenture Trustee as in the Indenture provided, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, by written notice to the Property Trustee, 30
the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Sponsor has paid or deposited with the Debenture Trustee a sum sufficient to pay (A) all overdue installments of interest on all of the Debentures, (B) any accrued Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) on all of the Debentures, (C) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Debentures that have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest and Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) thereon at the rate borne by the Debentures, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Debenture Trustee under the Indenture and all amounts due to the Debenture Trustee under Section 7.06 of the Base Indenture and to the Property Trustee under Section 8.6 hereof; and (ii) all Events of Default with respect to the Debentures, other than the non-payment of the principal of the Debentures that has become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default under the Indenture, except a default in the payment of principal or interest (unless such default has been cured and a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest and principal due otherwise than by acceleration has been deposited with the Debenture Trustee) or a default in respect of a covenant or provision that under the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each outstanding Debenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. Upon receipt by the Property Trustee of written notice declaring such an acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, by Holders of any part of the Trust Preferred Securities a record date shall be established for determining Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities entitled to join in such notice, which record date shall be at the close of business on the day the Property Trustee receives such notice. The Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having joined in such notice prior to the day that is 90 days after such record date, such notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new written notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, as the case may be, that is identical to a written 31
notice that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.14(b). (c) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain Outstanding, to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the terms of this Trust Agreement and the Indenture, upon a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture, any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities shall have the right to institute a proceeding directly against the Sponsor, pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, for enforcement of payment to such Holder of any amounts payable in respect of a Like Amount of Debentures (a "Direct Action"). Except as set forth in Section 5.14(b) and this Section 5.14(c), the Holders of Trust Preferred Securities shall have no right to exercise directly any right or remedy available to the holders of, or in respect of, the Debentures. (d) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 5.14, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising there from shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Trust Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 5.15. CUSIP Numbers. The Administrative Trustees in issuing the Trust Preferred Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Property Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Trust Preferred Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Trust Preferred Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Administrative Trustees will promptly notify the Property Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. SECTION 5.16. Cancellation. All Trust Securities Certificates surrendered upon the transfer of Trust Preferred Securities or for delivery of Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Common Equity Unit, or a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of a Normal Common Equity Unit shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Property Trustee, be delivered to the Property Trustee along with appropriate written instructions regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. No Trust Securities Certificates shall be authenticated, executed and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Trust Securities Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this 32
Trust Agreement. All cancelled Trust Securities Certificates held by the Property Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary practices. ARTICLE VI ACTS OF HOLDERS; MEETINGS; VOTING SECTION 6.1. Limitations on Voting Rights. (a) Except as expressly provided in this Trust Agreement and in the Indenture and as otherwise required by law, no Holder of Trust Preferred Securities shall have any right to vote or in any manner otherwise control the administration, operation and management of the Trust or the obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set forth, or contained in the terms of the Trust Securities Certificates, be construed so as to constitute the Holders from time to time as partners or members of an association. (b) So long as any Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of the Trust, the Trustees shall not (i) direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Debenture Trustee, or execute any trust or power conferred on the Debenture Trustee with respect to the Debentures, (ii) waive any past default that may be waived under Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture, (iii) exercise any right to rescind or annul a declaration that the principal of all the Debentures shall be due and payable, or (iv) consent to any amendment, modification or termination of the Indenture or the Debentures, where such consent shall be required, without, in each case, obtaining the prior approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities; provided, however, that where a consent under the Indenture would require the consent of each holder of Debentures affected thereby, no such consent shall be given by the Property Trustee without the prior written consent of each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall not revoke any action previously authorized or approved by a vote of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, except by a subsequent vote of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall notify all Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of any notice of default received with respect to the Debentures. In addition to obtaining the foregoing approvals of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Trustees shall, at the expense of the Sponsor, obtain an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that such action shall not cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. SECTION 6.2. Notice of Meetings. Notice of all meetings of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting, shall be given by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 12.8 to each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities, at such Holder's registered address, at least 15 days and not more than 90 days before the meeting. At any such meeting, any business properly before the meeting may be so considered whether or not stated in the notice of the meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. 33
SECTION 6.3. Meetings of Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. No annual meeting of Holders is required to be held. The Property Trustee, however, shall call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities to vote on any matter upon the written request of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities and the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee may, at any time in their discretion, call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities to vote on any matters as to which such Holders are entitled to vote. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. If a quorum is present at a meeting, an affirmative vote by the Holders present, in person or by proxy, holding Trust Preferred Securities representing at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities held by the Holders present, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting shall constitute the action of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, unless this Trust Agreement requires a greater number of affirmative votes. SECTION 6.4. Voting Rights. Holders shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of Initial Liquidation Amount represented by their Outstanding Trust Securities in respect of any matter as to which such Holders are entitled to vote. SECTION 6.5. Proxies. At any meeting of Holders, any Holder entitled to vote there at may vote by proxy, provided that no proxy shall be voted at any meeting unless it shall have been placed on file with the Administrative Trustees, or with such other officer or agent of the Trust as the Administrative Trustees may direct, for verification prior to the time at which such vote shall be taken. Pursuant to a resolution of the Administrative Trustees, proxies may be solicited in the name of the Administrative Trustees or one or more officers of the Administrative Trustees. Only Holders of record shall be entitled to vote. When Trust Securities are held jointly by several persons, any one of them may vote at any meeting in person or by proxy in respect of such Trust Securities, but if more than one of them shall be present at such meeting in person or by proxy, and such joint owners or their proxies so present disagree as to any vote to be cast, such vote shall not be received in respect of such Trust Securities. A proxy purporting to be executed by or on behalf of a Holder shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving invalidity shall rest on the challenger. No proxy shall be valid more than three years after its date of execution. SECTION 6.6. Holder Action by Written Consent. Any action that may be taken by Holders at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if Holders holding at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of all Trust Preferred Securities entitled to vote in respect of such action (or such larger proportion thereof as shall be required by any other provision of this Trust Agreement) shall consent to the action in writing. 34
SECTION 6.7. Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes. For the purposes of determining the Holders who are entitled to notice of and to vote at any meeting or by written consent, or to participate in any Distribution on the Trust Securities in respect of which a record date is not otherwise provided for in this Trust Agreement, or for the purpose of any other action, the Administrative Trustees may from time to time fix a date, not more than 90 days prior to the date of any meeting of Holders or the payment of a Distribution or other action, as the case may be, as a record date for the determination of the identity of the Holders of record for such purposes. SECTION 6.8. Acts of Holders. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Trust Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Property Trustee. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Trust Agreement and (subject to Section 8.1) conclusive in favor of the Trustees, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that any Trustee receiving the same deems sufficient. The ownership of Trust Securities shall be proved by the Securities Register. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Trust Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Trust Security and the Holder of every Trust Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustees, or the Trust in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Trust Security. Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Trust Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the Accreted Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such Accreted Liquidation Amount. 35
If any dispute shall arise between the Holders and the Trustees or among the Holders or the Trustees with respect to the authenticity, validity or binding nature of any request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver or other Act of such Holder or Trustee under this Article VI, then the determination of such matter by the Property Trustee shall be conclusive with respect to such matter. A Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Sponsor under the Guarantee to enforce its rights under the Guarantee without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee (as defined in the Guarantee), the Trust, any Trustee, or any Person or entity. SECTION 6.9. Inspection of Records. Upon reasonable notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee, the records of the Trust shall be open to inspection by Holders during normal business hours for any purpose reasonably related to such Holder's interest as a Holder. SECTION 6.10. Action With Respect to the Debenture. So long as the Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of the Trust, with respect to any waiver, amendment or similar action that requires the consent of the Holders of the Debentures under the Indenture, the Property Trustee shall act at the written direction of the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities (unless a different percentage of Holders shall be specified in the Indenture with respect to such action). ARTICLE VII REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SECTION 7.1. Representations and Warranties of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee. The Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, each severally on behalf of and as to itself, hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Sponsor and the Holders that: (a) the Property Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America; (b) the Property Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement; (c) the Delaware Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the federal laws of the United States of America. (d) the Delaware Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all 36
necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement; (e) this Trust Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and constitutes the valid and legally binding agreement of each of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; (f) the execution, delivery and performance of this Trust Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and do not require any approval of stockholders of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and such execution, delivery and performance will not (i) violate the articles of association or by-laws of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, (ii) violate any provision of, or constitute, with or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of, any Lien on any properties included in the Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of, any indenture, mortgage, credit agreement, license or other agreement or instrument to which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee is a party or by which it is bound, or (iii) violate any law, governmental rule or regulation of the State of New York or the State of Delaware, as the case may be, governing the banking, trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context) or any order, judgment or decree applicable to the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee; (g) neither the authorization, execution or delivery by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee of this Trust Agreement nor the consummation of any of the transactions by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as the case may be) contemplated herein requires the consent or approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with or the taking of any other action with respect to any governmental authority or agency under any existing law of the State of New York or the State of Delaware, governing the [banking], trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context), other than the filing of the Certificate of Trust with the Delaware Secretary of State; and (h) to the best of each of the Property Trustee's and the Delaware Trustee's knowledge, there are no proceedings pending or threatened against or affecting the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee in any court or before any governmental authority, agency or arbitration board or tribunal that, individually or in the aggregate, would materially and adversely affect the Trust or would question the right, power and authority of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, to enter into or perform its obligations as one of the Trustees under this Trust Agreement. SECTION 7.2. Representations and Warranties of Sponsor. The Sponsor hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Holders that: 37
(a) the Trust Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery on behalf of the Trust have been duly authorized and will have been duly and validly executed, issued and delivered by the Administrative Trustees pursuant to the terms and provisions of, and in accordance with the requirements of, this Trust Agreement, and the Holders will be, as of such date, entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement; and (b) there are no taxes, fees or other governmental charges payable by the Trust (or the Trustees on behalf of the Trust) under the laws of the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by any Trustee of this Trust Agreement. ARTICLE VIII THE TRUSTEES SECTION 8.1. Certain Duties and Responsibilities. (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustees shall be as provided by this Trust Agreement, subject to Section 12.10 hereof with respect to the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require any of the Trustees to expend or risk its or their own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its or their duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its or their rights or powers, if it or they shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Trust Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustees shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 8.1. To the extent that, at law or in equity, an Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee has duties and liabilities relating to the Trust or to the Holders, such Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall not be liable to the Trust or to any Holder for such Administrative Trustee's or Delaware Trustee's good faith reliance on the provisions of this Trust Agreement. The provisions of this Trust Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Sponsor and the Holders to replace such other duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee. (b) All payments made by the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent in respect of the Trust Securities shall be made only from the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property and only to the extent that there shall be sufficient revenue or proceeds from the Trust Property to enable the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent to make payments in accordance with the terms hereof. Each Holder, by its acceptance of a Trust Security, agrees that it will look solely to the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent legally available for distribution to it as herein provided and that the Trustees are not personally liable to such Holder for any amount distributable in respect of any Trust Security or for any other liability in respect of any Trust Security. This Section 8.1(b) does not limit the liability of the Trustees expressly set forth elsewhere in this Trust Agreement or, in the case of the Property Trustee, in the Trust Indenture Act. 38
(c) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall enforce this Trust Agreement for the benefit of the Holders. (d) The Property Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Trust Agreement against the Property Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 5.14), the Property Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (e) No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Property Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred: (A) the duties and obligations of the Property Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10), and the Property Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10); and (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Property Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; (ii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Property Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; (iii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Property Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement; (iv) the Property Trustee's sole duty with respect to the custody, safe keeping and physical preservation of the Debentures and the Payment Account shall 39
be to deal with such property in a similar manner as the Property Trustee deals with similar property for its own account, subject to the protections and limitations on liability afforded to the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement and the Trust Indenture Act; (v) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any interest on any money received by it except as it may otherwise agree with the Sponsor; and money held by the Property Trustee need not be segregated from other funds held by it except in relation to the Payment Account maintained by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 3.1 and except to the extent otherwise required by law; (vi) the Property Trustee shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the Administrative Trustees or the Sponsor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall the Property Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Sponsor; and (vii) no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require the Property Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Property Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Trust Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. (f) The Administrative Trustees shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the other Trustees or the Sponsor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall either Administrative Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Trustee or the Sponsor. (g) The Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and liabilities of the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees set forth herein. The duties of the Delaware Trustee shall be limited to (i) accepting legal process served on the Trust in the State of Delaware and (ii) the execution of any certificates required to be filed with the Delaware Secretary of State which the Delaware Trustee is required to execute under Section 3811 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. The Delaware Trustee shall be entitled to all of the same rights, protections indemnities and immunities under the Trust Agreement and with respect to the Trust as the Property Trustee. SECTION 8.2. Certain Notices. Within thirty days after the occurrence of any Event of Default actually known to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice of such Event of Default to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived. Within five Business Days after the receipt of notice of the Sponsor's exercise of its right to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures pursuant to the Indenture, the Property Trustee 40
shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice of such exercise to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such exercise shall have been revoked. The Property Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Property Trustee shall have received written notice or a Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee charged with the administration of this Trust Agreement shall have obtained actual knowledge of such Event of Default. SECTION 8.3. Certain Rights of Property Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.1: (a) the Property Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting in good faith upon any resolution, Opinion of Counsel, certificate, written representation of a Holder or transferee, certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) if (i) in performing its duties under this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee is required to decide between alternative courses of action, (ii) in construing any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee finds the same ambiguous or inconsistent with any other provisions contained herein, or (iii) the Property Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of this Trust Agreement, then, except as to any matter as to which the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote under the terms of this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall deliver a notice to the Sponsor requesting the Sponsor's opinion as to the course of action to be taken; provided, however, that if the Sponsor fails to deliver such opinion within 10 Business Days, the Property Trustee may take such action, or refrain from taking such action, as the Property Trustee shall determine in the interests of the Holders, in which event the Property Trustee shall have no liability except for its own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct; (c) any direction or act of the Sponsor or the Sponsor contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate; (d) any direction or act of an Administrative Trustee contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by a certificate executed by such Administrative Trustee and setting forth such direction or act; (e) the Property Trustee shall have no duty to see to any recording, filing or registration of any instrument (including any financing or continuation statement or any filing under tax or securities laws) or any rerecording, refiling or re-registration thereof; (f) the Property Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection (which counsel may be counsel to the Sponsor or any of its Affiliates, and may include any of its employees) and the advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith 41
and in reliance thereon and in accordance with such advice; the Property Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Trust Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction; (g) the Property Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Trust Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Property Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; provided that, nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Property Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Agreement, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs; (h) the Property Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by one or more Holders, but the Property Trustee may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Sponsor and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation; (i) the Property Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, provided that the Property Trustee shall be responsible for its own negligence or misconduct with respect to selection of any agent or attorney appointed by it hereunder; (j) whenever in the administration of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Property Trustee (i) may request instructions from the Holders (which instructions may only be given by the Holders of the same proportion in Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities as would be entitled to direct the Property Trustee under the terms of the Trust Securities in respect of such remedy, right or action), (ii) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received, and (iii) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions; and (k) except as otherwise expressly provided by this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall not be under any obligation to take any action that is discretionary under the provisions of this Trust Agreement. No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on any Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it, in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which such Person shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to perform any such act or acts, or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to any Trustee shall be construed to be a duty. 42
SECTION 8.4. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Trust and the Sponsor, and the Trustees do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustees shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Sponsor of the proceeds of the Debentures. The Property Trustee makes no representation as to the title to, or value or condition of, the Trust Property or any part thereof, including the Debentures, nor as to the validity or sufficiency of the Trust Agreement, the Debentures or the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or the qualification of the Trust as a Delaware statutory trust or a grantor trust or as to the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust, including without limitation, any registration exemptions applicable to the Trust Securities. SECTION 8.5. May Hold Securities. Any Trustee or any other agent of any Trustee or the Trust, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Trust Securities and, subject to Sections 8.8 and 8.13, and except as provided in the definition of the term "Outstanding" in Article I, may otherwise deal with the Trust with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee or such other agent. SECTION 8.6. Compensation; Indemnity; Fees. The Sponsor agrees: (a) to pay to the Trustees from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by them hereunder as may be separately agreed by the Sponsor and the Trustees from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustees upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustees in accordance with any provision of this Trust Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of their agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by their own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and (c) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Trustee, (ii) any Affiliate of any Trustee, (iii) any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or agent of any Trustee, and (iv) any employee or agent of the Trust (referred to herein as an "Indemnified Person") from and against any loss, damage, liability, tax, penalty, expense or claim of any kind or nature whatsoever incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of the creation, operation or dissolution of the Trust or any act or omission performed or omitted by such Indemnified Person in good faith on behalf of the Trust and in a manner such Indemnified Person reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Indemnified Person by this Trust Agreement, except that no Indemnified Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in 43
respect of any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct with respect to such acts or omissions. The provisions of this Section 8.6 shall survive the termination of this Trust Agreement and the removal or resignation of any Trustee. No Trustee may claim any Lien on any Trust Property as a result of any amount due pursuant to this Section 8.6. Subject to Section 8.8, The Sponsor and any Trustee may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Trust, and the Trust and the Holders of Trust Securities shall have no rights by virtue of this Trust Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the business of the Trust, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. Neither the Sponsor nor any Trustee shall be obligated to present any particular investment or other opportunity to the Trust even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Trust, could be taken by the Trust, and the Sponsor and any Trustee shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a partner or fiduciary) or to recommend to others any such particular investment or other opportunity. Any Trustee may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor, or may act as depository for, trustee or agent for, or act on any committee or body of holders of, securities or other obligations of the Sponsor or its Affiliates. SECTION 8.7. Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees and Administrative Trustees. (a) There shall at all times be a Property Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall be a Person that is a national or state chartered bank or trust company and eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 8.7 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Property Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8.7(a), it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article VIII. At the time of appointment, the Property Trustee must have securities rated in one of the three highest rating categories by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. (b) There shall at all times be one or more Administrative Trustees hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. Each Administrative Trustee shall be either a natural person who is at least 21 years of age or a legal entity that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind that entity. (c) There shall at all times be a Delaware Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities. The Delaware Trustee shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 44
years of age and a resident of the State of Delaware, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the State of Delaware and that otherwise meets the requirements of applicable Delaware law and that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. SECTION 8.8. Conflicting Interests. (a) If the Property Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Trust Agreement. (b) The Guarantee Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Trust Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. SECTION 8.9. Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee. Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, at any time or times, for the purpose of meeting the legal requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or of any jurisdiction in which any part of the Trust Property may at the time be located, the Holder of Common Securities and the Administrative Trustees shall have the power to appoint one or more Persons either to act as co-trustee, jointly with the Property Trustee, of all or any part of such Trust Property, or to the extent required by law to act as separate trustee of any such property, in either case with such powers as may be provided in the instrument of appointment, and to vest in such Person or Persons in the capacity aforesaid, any property, title, right or power deemed necessary or desirable, subject to the other provisions of this Section. If a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee shall have the sole power to so appoint such a co-trustee or separate trustee, and upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall for such purpose join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery, and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to appoint such co-trustee or separate trustee. Any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the United States, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the United States that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. Should any written instrument from the Sponsor be required by any co-trustee or separate trustee so appointed for more fully confirming to such co-trustee or separate trustee such property, title, right, or power, any and all such instruments shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the Sponsor. Every co-trustee or separate trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, but to such extent only, be appointed subject to the following terms, namely: (a) The Trust Securities shall be executed by one or more Administrative Trustees, and the Trust Securities shall be delivered by the Property Trustee, and all rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereunder in respect of the custody of securities, 45
cash and other personal property held by, or required to be deposited or pledged with, the Property Trustee specified hereunder shall be exercised solely by the Property Trustee and not by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (b) The rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereby conferred or imposed upon the Property Trustee in respect of any property covered by such appointment shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Property Trustee or by the Property Trustee and such co-trustee or separate trustee jointly, as shall be provided in the instrument appointing such co-trustee or separate trustee, except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act is to be performed, the Property Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (c) The Property Trustee at any time, by an instrument in writing executed by it, with the written concurrence of the Sponsor, may accept the resignation of or remove any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed under this Section 8.9, and, in case a Debenture Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall have power to accept the resignation of, or remove, any such co-trustee or separate trustee without the concurrence of the Sponsor. Upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor shall join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to effectuate such resignation or removal. A successor to any co-trustee or separate trustee so resigning or removed may be appointed in the manner provided in this Section 8.9. No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of the Property Trustee or any other trustee hereunder. (d) The Property Trustee shall not be liable by reason of any act or omission of a co-trustee or separate trustee. (e) Any Act of Holders delivered to the Property Trustee shall be deemed to have been delivered to each such co-trustee and separate trustee. SECTION 8.10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. No resignation or removal of any Trustee (the "Relevant Trustee") and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article VIII shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. Subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Relevant Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Sponsor and by appointing a successor Relevant Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to the Sponsor. The Relevant Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the eligibility requirements its expenses and charges to serve as the Relevant Trustee on a form provided by the Administrative Trustees, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges. If the instrument of acceptance by the successor Trustee required by Section 8.11 shall not have been 46
delivered to the Relevant Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the Relevant Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Sponsor, in the case of the Property Trustee, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee. The Administrative Trustees, or any of them, may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of Common Securities delivered to the Relevant Trustee. The Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed by Act of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, delivered to the Relevant Trustee (in its individual capacity and, in the case of the Property Trustee, on behalf of the Trust) (i) for cause (including upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in subparagraph (d) of the definition thereof with respect to the Relevant Trustee), or (ii) at any time if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of the Common Securities. If a resigning Property Trustee or Delaware Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Trustee, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Common Securities by Act of such Holders delivered to the Relevant Trustee or, if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by Act of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding delivered to such Relevant Trustee, may appoint a successor Relevant Trustee or Trustees, and such successor Trustee shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. If no successor Relevant Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Common Securities or Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 8.11, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee. The resigning Trustee shall give notice of each resignation or each removal of an Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 12.8 and shall give notice to the Sponsor and to the other Trustees. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Relevant Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office if it is the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Trust Agreement, if any Delaware Trustee who is a natural person dies or becomes, in the opinion of the Holders of the Common Securities, incompetent or incapacitated, the vacancy created by such death, incompetence or incapacity may be filled by the Property Trustee following the procedures regarding expenses and charges set forth above (with the successor being a Person who satisfies the eligibility requirement for the Delaware Trustee set forth in Section 8.7). 47
SECTION 8.11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor to a Relevant Trustee, the Sponsor, the retiring Relevant Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall execute and deliver an amendment hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (a) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Relevant Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities and the Trust, and (b) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Trust by more than one party hereto, it being understood that nothing herein or in such amendment shall constitute such parties co-trustees and upon the execution and delivery of such amendment the resignation or removal of the retiring Relevant Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Relevant Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Relevant Trustee, other than the filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent required under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act; but, on request of the Trust or any successor Trustee, such retiring Relevant Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all Trust Property, all proceeds thereof and money held by such retiring Relevant Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities and the Trust. Upon request of any such successor party, the Trust shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor party all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding paragraph. No successor party shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor party shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VIII. SECTION 8.12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Relevant Trustee shall be a party, or any Person, succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of such Relevant Trustee, shall be the successor of such Relevant Trustee hereunder, provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article VIII, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, other than the filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent required under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 8.13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Sponsor or Trust. If and when the Property Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Sponsor or the Trust (or any other obligor upon the Trust Preferred Securities), the Property Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Sponsor or the Trust (or any such other obligor). 48
SECTION 8.14. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other similar judicial proceeding relative to the Trust or any other obligor upon the Trust Securities or the property of the Trust (including the Debentures) or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Property Trustee (irrespective of whether any Distributions on the Trust Securities shall then be due and payable and irrespective of whether the Property Trustee shall have made any demand on the Trust for the payment of any past due Distributions) shall be entitled and empowered, to the fullest extent permitted by law, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise: (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of any Distributions owing and unpaid in respect of the Trust Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Property Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Property Trustee and, in the event the Property Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Property Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Property Trustee under Section 8.6, and (c) without prejudice to any other rights available to the Property Trustee under applicable law, when the Property Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with a Bankruptcy Event, such expenses (including legal fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expense of administration under any Bankruptcy Law or law relating to creditors' rights generally. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Property Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement adjustment or compensation affecting the Trust Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Property Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 8.15. Reports by Property Trustee. (a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with May 15, 2006, the Property Trustee shall transmit to all Holders in accordance with Section 12.8, and to the Sponsor, a brief report dated as of the immediately preceding May 15 with respect to: 49
(i) its eligibility under Section 8.7 or, in lieu thereof, if to the best of its knowledge it has continued to be eligible under said Section, a written statement to such effect; (ii) a statement that the Property Trustee has complied with all of its obligations under this Trust Agreement during the twelve-month period (or, in the case of the initial report, the period since the Closing Date) ending with such May 15 or, if the Property Trustee has not complied in any material respect with such obligations, a description of such noncompliance; and (iii) any change in the property and funds in its possession as Property Trustee since the date of its last report and any action taken by the Property Trustee in the performance of its duties hereunder which it has not previously reported and which in its opinion materially affects the Trust Securities. (b) In addition, the Property Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Property Trustee and its actions under this Trust Agreement as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Property Trustee with each national stock exchange, the Nasdaq National Market or such other interdealer quotation system or self-regulatory organization upon which the Trust Preferred Securities are listed or quoted, if any, and with the Commission and the Sponsor. SECTION 8.16. Reports to the Property Trustee. Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such documents, reports and information as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act (if any) and the compliance certificate required by Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. The Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall annually file with the Property Trustee a certificate specifying whether such Person is in compliance with all of the terms and covenants (if any) applicable to such Person hereunder. SECTION 8.17. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such evidence of compliance with any conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Trust Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate. SECTION 8.18. Number of Trustees. (a) The number of Trustees shall be five, unless the Property Trustee also acts as the Delaware Trustee, in which case the number of Trustees may be three. 50
(b) If an Trustee ceases to hold office for any reason, a vacancy shall occur. The vacancy shall be filled with an Trustee appointed in accordance with Section 8.10. (c) The death, resignation, retirement, removal, bankruptcy, incompetence or incapacity to perform the duties of an Trustee shall not operate to annul or dissolve the Trust. SECTION 8.19. Delegation of Power. (a) Any Administrative Trustee may, by power of attorney consistent with applicable law, delegate to any other natural person over the age of 21 his or her power for the purpose of executing any documents contemplated in Section 2.7(a) or making any governmental filing; and (b) The Administrative Trustees shall have power to delegate from time to time to such of their number the doing of such things and the execution of such instruments either in the name of the Trust or the names of the Administrative Trustees or otherwise as the Administrative Trustees may deem expedient, to the extent such delegation is not prohibited by applicable law or contrary to the provisions of this Trust Agreement. SECTION 8.20. Trust Liabilities. All liabilities of the Trust will be liabilities of the Trust as an entity, and will be paid or satisfied from the Trust Property and the other assets of the Trust. No liability of the Trust will be payable in whole or in part by the Property Trustee in its individual capacity or in its capacity as Property Trustee or by any member, partner, shareholder, director, officer, employee, agent or attorney of the Property Trustee. ARTICLE IX DISSOLUTION, LIQUIDATION AND MERGER SECTION 9.1. Dissolution Upon Expiration Date. Unless earlier dissolved, the Trust shall automatically dissolve, and its affairs be wound up, on May 17, 2056 (the "Expiration Date"), following the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with Section 9.4. SECTION 9.2. Early Dissolution. The first to occur of any of the following events is an "Early Dissolution Event": (a) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event in respect of, or the dissolution or liquidation of, the Sponsor, unless the Common Securities shall be transferred as provided by Section 5.10, in which case this provision shall refer instead to any such successor Holder of the Common Securities; 51
(b) the written direction to the Property Trustee from all of the Holders of the Common Securities at any time to dissolve the Trust and, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to distribute the Debentures to Holders in exchange for the Trust Preferred Securities (which direction is optional and wholly within the discretion of the Holders of the Common Securities); (c) the redemption of all of the Trust Preferred Securities in connection with the redemption or repayment of all the Debentures; and (d) the entry of an order for dissolution of the Trust by a court of competent jurisdiction. SECTION 9.3. Dissolution. The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Trustees and the Trust shall terminate upon the latest to occur of the following: (a) the distribution by the Property Trustee to Holders of all amounts required to be distributed hereunder upon the liquidation of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4, or upon the redemption of all of the Trust Securities pursuant to Section 4.2; (b) the payment of any and all expenses owed by the Trust; (c) the discharge of all administrative duties of the Administrative Trustees, including the performance of any tax reporting obligations with respect to the Trust or the Holders; and (d) the filing of a certificate of cancellation, at the direction and expense of the Sponsor, by the Trustees with the Delaware Secretary of State pursuant to Section 3810 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. SECTION 9.4. Liquidation. (a) If an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of Section 9.2 occurs or upon the Expiration Date, the Trust shall be liquidated by the Property Trustee as expeditiously as the Property Trustee determines to be possible by distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to each Holder a Like Amount of Debentures, subject to Section 9.4(d). Notice of liquidation shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Liquidation Date to each Holder of Trust Securities at such Holder's address appearing in the Securities Register. All such notices of liquidation shall: (i) state the CUSIP Number of the Trust Securities; (ii) state the Liquidation Date; (iii) state that from and after the Liquidation Date, the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding and any Trust Securities Certificates not surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures, or if Section 9.4(d) applies, a right to receive a Liquidating Distribution; and (iv) provide such information with respect to the mechanics by which Holders may exchange Trust Securities Certificates for Debentures, or if Section 52
9.4(d) applies, receive a Liquidation Distribution, as the Property Trustee (after consultation with the Administrative Trustees) shall determine. (b) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, in order to effect the liquidation of the Trust and distribution of the Debentures to Holders, the Property Trustee, either itself acting as exchange agent or through the appointment of a separate exchange agent, shall establish a record date for such distribution (which shall be not more than 30 days prior to the Liquidation Date) and, establish such procedures as it shall deem appropriate to effect the distribution of Debentures in exchange for the Outstanding Trust Securities Certificates. (c) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, after the Liquidation Date, (i) the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding, (ii) certificates representing a Like Amount of Debentures will be issued to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates, upon surrender of such Certificates to the exchange agent for exchange, (iii) any Trust Securities Certificates not so surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures bearing accrued and unpaid interest in an amount equal to the accumulated and unpaid Distributions on such Trust Securities Certificates until such certificates are so surrendered (and until such certificates are so surrendered, no payments of interest or principal will be made to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates with respect to such Debentures) and (iv) all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive Debentures upon surrender of Trust Securities Certificates. (d) If, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 9.4, whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, distribution of the Debentures in the manner provided herein is determined by the Property Trustee not to be practical, or if an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (c) of Section 9.2 occurs, the Trust Property shall be liquidated, and the Trust shall be dissolved and its affairs wound-up, by the Property Trustee in such manner as the Property Trustee determines. In such event, the Holders, if any, will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to Holders, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, an amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount per Trust Security plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the date of payment (such amount being the "Liquidation Distribution"). If the Liquidation Distribution can be paid only in part because the Trust has insufficient assets available to pay in full the aggregate Accreted Liquidation Distribution, then, subject to the next succeeding sentence, the amounts payable by the Trust on the Trust Securities shall be paid on a pro rata basis (based upon Liquidation Amounts). The Holders of the Common Securities will be entitled to receive Liquidation Distributions pro rata (determined as aforesaid) with Holders of Trust Preferred Securities, except that, if a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Trust Preferred Securities shall have a priority over the Common Securities as provided in Section 4.3. 53
SECTION 9.5. Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of Trust. The Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person or other body, except pursuant to this Section 9.5 or Section 9.4. At the request of the Holders of the Common Securities, with the consent of the Administrative Trustees, but without the consent of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, the Trust may merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a trust organized as such under the laws of any state; provided, that (i) such successor entity either (a) expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, or (b) substitutes for the Trust Preferred Securities other securities having substantially the same terms as the Trust Preferred Securities (the "Successor Securities") so long as the Successor Securities have the same priority as the Trust Preferred Securities with respect to distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise, (ii) a trustee of such successor entity possessing substantially the same powers and duties as the Property Trustee is appointed to hold the Debentures, (iii) the Successor Securities are listed, or any Successor Securities will be listed upon notification of issuance, on any national securities exchange or other organization on which the Trust Preferred Securities are listed, (iv) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not cause the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) to be downgraded by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, (v) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, (vi) such successor entity has a purpose substantially identical to that of the Trust, (vii) prior to such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, the Property Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (a) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, and (b) following such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, neither the Trust nor such successor entity will be required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act, and (viii) the Sponsor or its permitted transferee owns all of the common securities of such successor entity and the Sponsor guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the Successor Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trust shall not, except with the consent of Holders of all of the Trust Preferred Securities, consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other Person or permit any other Person to consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease would cause the Trust or the successor entity to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. 54
ARTICLE X REMARKETING AND RESET RATE MECHANICS SECTION 10.1. Obligation to Conduct Remarketing and Related Requirements. (a) The Sponsor and the Trust shall appoint a nationally recognized investment banking firm as Remarketing Agent and enter into a Remarketing Agreement at least 30 days prior to each Remarketing Date. The Sponsor and the Trust may appoint different Remarketing Agents for Remarketings on and in connection with different Remarketing Dates, provided that they shall have appointed a Remarketing Agent and caused the related Remarketing Agreement to be in effect for the period commencing not less than 30 days prior to the related Remarketing Date and continuing through such Remarketing Date and the determination in accordance with this Article X that the related Remarketing is a Successful Remarketing or Failed Remarketing. Each Remarketing Agreement shall include such terms, conditions and other provisions as the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent may agree among themselves but shall in any event include provisions to substantially the following effect: (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a price for the Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed in the Remarketing which results in proceeds, net of the Remarketing Agent's Fee, equal to at least 100% of their aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount, plus accrued and unpaid Distributions, if any, to the Remarketing Settlement Date (including the Additional Interest, if any, that remains accrued and unpaid on the Remarketing Settlement Date because the Sponsor has exercised its right to defer interest on the Debentures in accordance with Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture); (ii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will in its sole discretion reset the Distribution Rate on the Trust Preferred Securities (as a yield to the Scheduled Redemption Date unless the Sponsor elects, pursuant to Section 2.13 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Section 10.2 of this Trust Agreement, to cause interest on the Debentures to be paid in cash, and then as a rate per annum for payment of interest in cash on each applicable Distribution Date) in order to give effect to clause (i) above for Distribution Periods commencing on or after such Remarketing Settlement Date, subject to Section 10.3; (iii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will deduct the Remarketing Agent's Fee from the proceeds of the Remarketing and remit any proceeds remaining after such deduction to or at the direction of the Property Trustee, who either will apply such proceeds (or will have given the Remarketing Agent instructions to remit such proceeds in a manner that will result in their application) as follows (allocated to the Trust Preferred Securities that participated in the Remarketing on a pro rata basis in proportion to their Accreted Liquidation Amounts): (iv) to the extent such proceeds relate to Trust Preferred Securities that are a part of Normal Common Equity Units, to pay such proceeds up to the aggregate Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for 55
application in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and to pay the Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount, if any, to the applicable selling Holders; and (b) to the extent the proceeds relate to Separate Trust Preferred Securities, to pay such proceeds to the applicable selling Holders; and (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent's Fee for the Remarketing will be as agreed among the Sponsor, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent and set forth in the Remarketing Agreement. (c) The Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to effect remarketing of the Trust Preferred Securities as described in this Article X. If in the judgment of counsel to the Sponsor or to the Remarketing Agent it is necessary for a registration statement covering the Trust Preferred Securities to have been filed and have become effective under the Securities Act in order to effect the Remarketing, then the Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially reasonable efforts (i) to ensure that a registration statement covering the full Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed shall have become effective in a form that will enable the Remarketing Agent to rely on it in connection with the Remarketing or (ii) effect such Remarketing pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or another available exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. SECTION 10.2. Sponsor Decisions in Connection With Remarketing. In connection with Remarketings, the Sponsor shall have the right hereunder to change certain terms of the Trust Preferred Securities (and under Section 2.10 of the Supplement Indenture, the Sponsor has the right to make corresponding changes in certain terms of the Debentures) as provided below in this Section 10.2. By not later than the 30th day prior to each Remarketing Date, the Sponsor will specify the following information or decisions in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraphs (a) through (e) applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only if the related Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing): (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Debentures will pay interest (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities will pay Distributions) in cash (it being understood and agreed that, unless the Sponsor affirmatively elects to cause the Debentures to pay interest (and the Trust Preferred Securities to pay Distributions) in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will not be paid or Distributions made in cash but, instead, will accrete in accordance with Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement and Section 2.10 of the Supplemental Indenture, as applicable); (b) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and, accordingly, the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); provided, however, that the Debenture Stated Maturity Date may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of 56
the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (c) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on a day prior to the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the date on and after which the Debentures may be so redeemed and the redemption price or prices; provided, however, that an early redemption date for the Debentures and related early Redemption Date hereunder may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period; (d) whether the Sponsor elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add any additional financial covenants to the Indenture applicable to the Debentures, including the form of supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to such additional financial covenants if the Sponsor is choosing to add any financial covenants; (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Sponsor is exercising its right under Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture and Section 6.3 of the Guarantee Agreement to cause the subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Debentures and in the Guarantee Agreement to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing Settlement Date; and (f) if the Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and if the related Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing: (i) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and, accordingly, the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); and (ii) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on a date prior to the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the date on and after which the Debentures may be so redeemed; provided, however, any changed Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. SECTION 10.3. Reset of Distribution Rate in Connection with Remarketings and Related Changes in Terms. (a) As part of and in connection with each Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall reset the Distribution Rate, as contemplated by Section 10.1(a)(ii) and in accordance with the other provisions of this Article X, to a new rate (the "Reset Rate"), rounded to the nearest one-thousandth (0.001) of one percent per annum, that will apply 57
to all Trust Preferred Securities (whether or not the Holders thereof participated in the Remarketing) if such Remarketing is Successful for each Distribution Period commencing on or after such Remarketing Settlement Date, subject to the following provisions and limitations: (i) the Reset Rate in connection with a Remarketing for settlement on the Remarketing Settlement Date, if such date is on or prior to November 15, 2008, may not be reset to a rate per annum that exceeds the Reset Cap; and (ii) the Reset Rate may not be less than 0% per annum in connection with any Remarketing. (b) If the Remarketing has been determined to be Successful in accordance with Section 10.4(e), by approximately 4:30 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent shall notify the Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that the Remarketing was Successful and the Reset Rate determined as part of such Remarketing in accordance with this Article X. (c) If a Remarketing is Successful, then commencing with the related Remarketing Settlement Date the Distribution Rate shall be reset to the Reset Rate determined in accordance with this Article X pursuant to such Remarketing and the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall become effective (in accordance with the Indenture in the case of the Debentures). (d) If a Remarketing for a settlement on a Remarketing Settlement Date prior to February 15, 2009 is not Successful: (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such Remarketing; (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged unless and until it is reset pursuant to a subsequent Remarketing in accordance with this Article X; (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall not become effective (whether pursuant to this Agreement in the case of the Trust Preferred Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case of the Debentures); and (iv) the Sponsor, the Trust and the applicable Remarketing Agent shall attempt another Remarketing on the next succeeding date that is a Remarketing Settlement Date. 58
(e) If a Remarketing for a settlement on the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date is not Successful: (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such Remarketing and no further attempts at Remarketing shall be made; (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged and, in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture, the Debentures will continue to bear cash interest (and under this Trust Agreement the Trust Preferred Securities will continue to bear cash Distributions) at the Distribution Rate otherwise in effect, payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15 thereafter; (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the Sponsor pursuant to clauses (a) through (e) of the second sentence in Section 10.2, shall not become effective (whether pursuant to this Trust Agreement in the case of the Trust Preferred Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case of the Debentures); (iv) the Debenture Stated Maturity Date, Scheduled Redemption Date, and early redemption date for the Debentures and Trust Preferred Securities, will change in accordance with paragraph (f) of the second sentence of Section 10.2, as applicable; (v) in the case of Trust Preferred Securities that are included in Normal Common Equity Units, such Trust Preferred Securities will be applied in satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the Pledge Agreement; and (vi) in the case of Separate Trust Preferred Securities, such Trust Preferred Securities will be returned to the related Holders in accordance with the Pledge Agreement and Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities will have the rights provided for in Section 10.5. SECTION 10.4. Remarketing Procedures. (a) The Property Trustee will give Holders hereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement provides the Stock Purchase Agent will give Holders (as defined therein) of Common Equity Units, and the Sponsor will request that DTC give to its participants holding Common Equity Units or Trust Preferred Securities, notice of a Remarketing at least 21 Business Days prior to the related Remarketing Date. Such notice will set forth: (i) whether for Distribution Periods commencing on or after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Debentures will pay interest (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities will pay Distributions) in cash or instead will accrete interest and Distributions, as applicable, together with the applicable Distribution Dates and related record dates; 59
(ii) any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on and after which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the Debentures (resulting in a redemption by the Trust of the Trust Preferred Securities); (iii) whether the Sponsor's obligations under the Debentures and the Guarantee Agreement will remain subordinated after the Remarketing Settlement Date; (iv) any other changes in the terms of the Debentures or the Trust Preferred Securities notified by the Sponsor in connection with such Remarketing pursuant to Section 10.2 (including, if the Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing, any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on or after which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the Debentures (resulting in a redemption by the Sponsor of the Common Equity Units)); (v) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds its Trust Preferred Securities as a component of Normal Common Equity Units to elect not to participate in the Remarketing and the date by which such election must be made; (vi) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds Separate Trust Preferred Securities to elect to participate in the Remarketing; and (vii) in the case of a Remarketing for settlement on the February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date, the procedures an Owner must follow in the event such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing if such Owner holds Separate Trust Preferred Securities to exercise its Put Right. (b) On any Remarketing Date, all outstanding Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will be tendered or deemed tendered to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing unless the Holder thereof elects not to participate in the Remarketing. Each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units, by purchasing such Trust Preferred Securities, agrees to have such Trust Preferred Securities remarketed on any Remarketing Date (unless such Holder elects not to participate in the Remarketing as provided herein) and authorizes the Remarketing Agent to take any and all action on its behalf necessary to effect the Remarketing. On any Remarketing Date, each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will have the right to elect not to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed by giving notice and taking the other actions provided for in Section 5.05 of the Pledge Agreement. (c) Each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities may elect to have such Holder's Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in any Remarketing. A Holder making such an election must, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, notify the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent on or prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on or prior to the fifth Business Day 60
immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date (but no earlier than the Distribution Date immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date). Any such notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing or any other condition. Any such notice and delivery may be withdrawn on or prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery not withdrawn by such time will be irrevocable with respect to such Remarketing. Pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, promptly after 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent, based on the notices and deliveries received by it prior to such time, shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the Initial Liquidation Amount of Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be tendered for Remarketing and shall cause such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be presented to the Remarketing Agent. (d) If the Remarketing on a Remarketing Date is Successful, then the Remarketing Agent shall deduct the Remarketing Agent's Fee to which it is entitled as provided in Section 10.1 and the related Remarketing Agreement from the proceeds of such Remarketing and remit the remaining proceeds to the Property Trustee in accordance with Section 10.1(a)(iii) for application as provided therein. (e) If by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date the Remarketing Agent has found buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X, a Successful Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution stating that such Remarketing was successful and specifying the Reset Rate and shall post such information on its website on the World Wide Web. (f) If, by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date the Remarketing Agent is unable to find buyers for all of the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X, a Failed Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution stating that such Remarketing was a Failed Remarketing and, if such Failed Remarketing was for settlement on February 15, 2009, stating the aggregate principal amount of Debentures that the Sponsor will be required to repurchase as required pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture, and the related aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities that the Trust will be required to purchase pursuant to Section 10.5, and publish such information on its website on the World Wide Web. (g) The right of each Holder (whether of Separate Trust Preferred Securities or of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units) to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed and sold in connection with any Remarketing shall be limited to the extent that (i) the Remarketing Agent conducts a Remarketing pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, (ii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a 61
purchaser or purchasers for the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X and the Remarketing Agreement, and (iii) the purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required. (h) Neither the Property Trustee, the Sponsor nor the Remarketing Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Trust Preferred Securities for remarketing. SECTION 10.5. Put Right. (a) Subject to Section 10.5(b), if there has been a Final Failed Remarketing, Holders of Trust Preferred Securities will, subject to this Section 10.5, have the right (the "Put Right") to require: (i) the Property Trustee, as Holder (as defined in the Indenture) of Debentures, to exercise its right under Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture to require the Sponsor to purchase thereunder a Like Amount of Debentures; and (ii) as a consequence, to require the Sponsor to purchase on February 15, 2010 under and in accordance with such Section 2.7 of the Supplemental Indenture a Like Amount of Debentures for consideration per Debenture (the "Put Consideration") of cash in an amount equal to 100% of their Accreted Principal Amount as of such date plus a junior subordinated note of the Sponsor, bearing interest at the rate of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest) to but excluding such date on such Debentures and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2010 is during a Deferral Period and such Deferral Period ends after August 15, 2010, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. The Property Trustee will remit to each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities making such election the Put Consideration upon receipt of the Put Consideration from the Sponsor. (b) The Put Right of a Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities will only be exercisable upon delivery of a notice to the Property Trustee by such Holder on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day prior to the February 15, 2010 Remarketing Settlement Date. A Holder may give such notice by, when it makes its election under Section 10.4(c) to cause its Trust Preferred Securities to be offered in the Remarketing, stating in such notice that, in the event such Remarketing is in connection with the February 15, 2010 Remarketing Settlement Date and if such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing, then such Holder makes the election provided for under this Section 10.5. (c) The rights of Holders of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units, including their Put Rights, will be subject to the security interest in favor of the Sponsor provided for in the Pledge Agreement. 62
SECTION 10.6. Common Securities. The terms of the Common Securities shall automatically be modified as and when the terms of Trust Preferred Securities change pursuant to this Article, with the consequence that the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities shall at all times be identical to the terms of the Common Securities, except (i) for the subordination of the Common Securities pursuant to Section 4.3 and (ii) that Section 10.5 shall apply only to the Trust Preferred Securities. ARTICLE XI OTHER COMMON EQUITY UNIT RELATED PROVISIONS SECTION 11.1. Tax Treatment. Each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities agrees, by acceptance of Trust Preferred Securities, and each Owner agrees, by acceptance of a beneficial interest in Trust Preferred Securities, to treat for all United States federal income tax purposes (i) the Trust as a grantor trust, (ii) itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities or treasury securities pledged under the Pledge Agreement, as the case may be, (iii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Sponsor, and (iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in each ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities included in each Normal Common Equity Unit as $12.50 and the fair market value of each Stock Purchase Contract as $0. ARTICLE XII MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS SECTION 12.1. Limitation of Rights of Holders. Except as set forth in Section 9.2, the death or incapacity of any person having an interest, beneficial or otherwise, in Trust Securities shall not operate to terminate this Trust Agreement, nor dissolve or annul the Trust, nor entitle the legal representatives or heirs of such Person or any Holder for such person, to claim an accounting, take any action or bring any proceeding in any court for a partition or winding up of the arrangements contemplated hereby, nor otherwise affect the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto or any of them. SECTION 12.2. Amendment. (a) This Trust Agreement may be amended from time to time by the Administrative Trustees and the Holders of all of the Common Securities, without the consent of any Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities, (i) to cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision herein that may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Trust Agreement, which shall not be inconsistent with the other provisions of this Trust Agreement, or (ii) to modify, eliminate or add to any provisions of this Trust Agreement to such extent as shall be necessary to ensure that the Trust will not be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes at all times that any Trust Securities are outstanding, to ensure that the Trust will not be required to register as an "investment company" under the 63
Investment Company Act or to ensure the treatment of the Trust Preferred Securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital under the prevailing Federal Reserve rules and regulations; provided, however, that in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), such action shall not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any Holder. Any such amendment shall become effective when notice is given to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. (b) Except as provided in Section 12.2(c), any provision of this Trust Agreement may be amended by the Administrative Trustees, the Property Trustee, and the Holders of all of the Common Securities and with (i) the consent of Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, and (ii) receipt by the Trustees of an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such amendment or the exercise of any power granted to the Trustees or the Administrative Trustees in accordance with such amendment will not affect the Trust's status as a grantor trust or cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes or affect the Trust's exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act. (c) In addition to and notwithstanding any other provision in this Trust Agreement, without the consent of each affected Holder (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this Trust Agreement may not be amended to (i) change the amount or timing of any Distribution on the Trust Securities or otherwise adversely affect the amount of any Distribution required to be made in respect of the Trust Securities as of a specified date, or (ii) restrict the right of a Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such date; and notwithstanding any other provision herein, without the unanimous consent of the Holders (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this paragraph (c) of this Section 12.2 may not be amended. (d) If any proposed amendment to the Trust Agreement provides for, or the Trustees otherwise propose to effect, (i) any action that would adversely affect in any material respect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Trust Preferred Securities, whether by way of amendment to the Trust Agreement or otherwise, or (ii) the dissolution and winding-up of the Trust, other than pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement, then the Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities as a class will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Trust Agreement, no amendment to this Trust Agreement may be made if, as a result of such amendment, it would cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes. (e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, no Trustee shall enter into or consent to any amendment to this Trust Agreement that would cause the Trust to fail or cease to qualify for the exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act or to be taxable as a corporation or to be classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. 64
(f) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on the Sponsor or the Administrative Trustees. (g) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Property Trustee, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities of, the Property Trustee. (h) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Delaware Trustee, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities of, the Delaware Trustee. (i) In the event that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is made, the Administrative Trustees shall promptly provide to the Sponsor and the Property Trustee a copy of such amendment. (j) Neither the Property Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee shall be required to enter into any amendment to this Trust Agreement that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Trust Agreement. The Property Trustee shall be entitled to receive an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is in compliance with this Trust Agreement. SECTION 12.3. Separability. In case any provision in this Trust Agreement or in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 12.4. Governing Law. This Trust Agreement and the rights and obligations of each of the Holders, the Trust, the Sponsor and the Trustees with respect to this Trust Agreement and the Trust Securities shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to its conflicts of laws provisions. SECTION 12.5. Payments Due on Non-Business Day. If the date fixed for any payment on any Trust Security shall be a day that is not a Business Day, then such payment need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as though made on the date fixed for such payment, and no Distributions shall accumulate on such unpaid amount for the period after such date. 65
SECTION 12.6. Successors. This Trust Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Sponsor, the Trust and any Trustee, including any successor by operation of law. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Sponsor that is permitted under Article X of the Base Indenture and pursuant to which the assignee agrees in writing to perform the Sponsor's obligations hereunder, the Sponsor shall not assign its obligations hereunder. SECTION 12.7. Headings. The Article and Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Trust Agreement. SECTION 12.8. Reports, Notices and Demands. Any report, notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon any Holder, the Sponsor or the Sponsor may be given or served in writing by deposit thereof, first-class postage prepaid, in the United States mail, hand delivery or facsimile transmission, in each case, addressed, (a) in the case of a Holder of Trust Preferred Securities, to such Holder as such Holder's name and address may appear on the Securities Register and (b) in the case of the Holder of the Common Securities or the Sponsor, to MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza North, Long Island City, New York 11101, facsimile 212-578-0266, Attention: Treasurer, or to such other address as may be specified in a written notice by the Sponsor to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon a Holder shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, upon hand delivery, mailing or transmission. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common Securities shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common Securities, as the case may be. Any notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon the Trust, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Trust shall be given in writing addressed to such Person as follows: (a) with respect to the Property Trustee, to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, Telephone: (212) 623-5233, Facsimile: (212) 623-6215; (b) with respect to the Delaware Trustee, to Chase Bank USA, National Association, c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE 19713, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services; (c) with respect to the Administrative Trustees, to them at c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention: Institutional Trust Services, facsimile: (302) 552-6280; and (d) with respect to the Trust, to its principal office specified in Section 2.2, with a copy to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Trust, the Delaware Trustee, the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Trust, the Property Trustee or such Administrative Trustee. 66
SECTION 12.9. Agreement Not to Petition. Each of the Trustees and the Sponsor agree for the benefit of the Holders that, until at least one year and one day after the Trust has been dissolved in accordance with Article IX, they shall not file, or join in the filing of, a petition against the Trust under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law (including the United States Bankruptcy Code) (collectively, "Bankruptcy Laws") or otherwise join in the commencement of any proceeding against the Trust under any Bankruptcy Law. If the Sponsor takes action in violation of this Section 12.9, the Property Trustee agrees, for the benefit of Holders, that at the expense of the Sponsor, it shall file an answer with the bankruptcy court or otherwise properly contest the filing of such petition by the Sponsor against the Trust or the commencement of such action and raise the defense that the Sponsor has agreed in writing not to take such action and should be stopped and precluded therefrom and such other defenses, if any, as counsel for the Trustee or the Trust may assert. SECTION 12.10. Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Trust Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this Trust Agreement for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining the rights and obligations hereunder, and this Trust Agreement, the Sponsor and the Property Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the case if this Trust Agreement were qualified under that Act on the date hereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if and to the extent that any provision of this Trust Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. (b) The Property Trustee shall be the only Trustee that is a trustee for the purposes of the Trust Indenture Act. (c) The application of the Trust Indenture Act to this Trust Agreement shall not affect the nature of the Trust Securities as equity securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. SECTION 12.11. Acceptance of Terms of Trust Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Indenture. THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A TRUST SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST THEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A HOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE HOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH TRUST SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST AGREEMENT, THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE TRUST, SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST 67
AGREEMENT SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS. SECTION 12.12. Counterparts. This Trust Agreement may contain more than one counterpart of the signature page and this Trust Agreement may be executed by the affixing of the signature of each of the parties to one of such counterpart signature pages. All of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed a single signature page. [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 68
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust. METLIFE, INC., as Sponsor By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. ------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel ------------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signer CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee By: /s/ John J. Cashin ------------------------------- Name: John J. Cashin Title: Vice President ANTHONY J. WILLIAMSON as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson ------------------------------- Name: Title: PHILIP SALMON, as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Philip Salmon ------------------------------- Name: Title: 69
THOMAS CURRAN, as Administrative Trustee By: /s/ Thomas Curran -------------------------------- Name: Title: 70
STATE OF New York ) )ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Joseph Prochaska, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) )ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Anthony J. Williamson, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer 71
(This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) )ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Philip Salmon, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) )ss COUNTY OF Queens ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Thomas Curran, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Irina Kristen Azer 72
(This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF New York ) )ss COUNTY OF New York ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State of New York, personally appeared Paul J. Schmalzel, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Emily Fayan (This area for official notarial seal) STATE OF Delaware ) )ss COUNTY OF New Castle ) On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Delaware, New Castle County, personally appeared John J. Cashin, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon behalf of which such person acted. WITNESS my hand and official seal SIGNATURE: /s/ Sarika M. Sheth (This area for official notarial seal) 73
CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO CERTIFICATE OF TRUST OF METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III THIS Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III (the "Trust"), is being duly executed and filed by the undersigned trustee to amend the Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated May 17, 2001 (the "Certificate of Trust"), pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (12 Del. C. Section 3801, et seq.) (the "Act"). 1. Name. The name of the statutory trust is MetLife Capital Trust III. 2. Amendment to Certificate of Trust. The Certificate of Trust is hereby amended by amending and restating Section 2 thereof in its entirety as follows: "2. Delaware Trustee. The name and business address of the trustee of the Trust with a principal place of business in the State of Delaware is: Chase Manhattan Bank USA, National Association 500 Stanton Christiana Road OPS4/3rd Floor Newark, Delaware 19713 Attn: "Institutional Trust Services" 3. Effective Date. This Certificate of Amendment shall be effective upon filing. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned trustees of the Trust has executed this Certificate of Amendment in accordance with Section 3811(a)(2) of the Act. CHASE MANHATTAN BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee By: /s/ John J. Cashin ------------------------------ Name: John J. Cashin Title: Vice President A-1
EXHIBIT B [FORM OF COMMON SECURITIES CERTIFICATE] THIS CERTIFICATE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW AND SECTION 5.10 OF THE TRUST AGREEMENT Certificate Number _______________ Number of Common Securities __________ Certificate Evidencing Common Securities of MetLife Capital Trust III 6.375% Common Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security) MetLife Capital Trust III, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that ________________ (the "Holder") is the registered owner of _________________ (___________) Common Securities of the Trust representing undivided common beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and designated the 6.375% Common Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security) (the "Common Securities"). Except in accordance with the Trust Agreement (as defined below), the Common Securities are not transferable and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any attempted transfer hereof other than in accordance therewith shall be void. The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Common Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Common Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Common Securities as set forth therein. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. Terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Trust Agreement. B-1
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has executed this certificate this _______ day of ____________, 20__. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III By: ____________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee B-2
PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Common Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement. Dated: _______________ _________________________________ As Property Trustee By: _____________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee B-3
EXHIBIT C [FORM OF TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE] [This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is a Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate within the meaning of the Trust Agreement hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or a nominee of a Clearing Agency. This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is exchangeable for Trust Preferred Securities Certificates registered in the name of a person other than the Clearing Agency or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Clearing Agency to a nominee of the Clearing Agency or by a nominee of the Clearing Agency to the Clearing Agency or another nominee of the Clearing Agency, except in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement. Unless this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York Corporation ("DTC"), to MetLife Capital Trust III or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO A PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]1 NO EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OR OTHER PLAN SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), OR SECTION 4975 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") (EACH, A "PLAN"), NO ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" BY REASON OF ANY PLAN'S INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY (A "PLAN ASSET ENTITY"), AND NO PERSON INVESTING "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, MAY ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN, UNLESS SUCH ACQUISITION OR HOLDING WILL NOT RESULT IN A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975, OR SUCH PURCHASER OR HOLDER IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR PROHIBITED TRANSACTION CLASS EXEMPTION ("PTCE") 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING AND, IN THE CASE OF ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER RELYING ON ANY EXEMPTION OTHER THAN PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR REGULATION SECTION 2550.401c-1, HAS COMPLIED WITH ANY REQUEST BY THE SPONSOR OR THE TRUST FOR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF SUCH EXEMPTION. ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER OF THIS TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED BY ITS PURCHASE AND HOLDING HEREOF THAT (A) IT IS NOT A PLAN OR A PLAN ASSET ENTITY AND IS NOT PURCHASING SUCH SECURITIES ON BEHALF OF OR WITH "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, (B) ITS C-1
PURCHASE AND HOLDING OF SUCH SECURITIES WILL NOT RESULT IN A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975, OR (C) IT IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING. - ---------------------- 1 Insert on Global Certificates only. C-2
Certificate Number __________ Number of Trust Preferred Securities________ CUSIP NO. [-] Certificate Evidencing Series B Trust Preferred Securities of MetLife Capital Trust III 4.91% Series B Trust Preferred Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Securities) MetLife Capital Trust III, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that (the "Holder") is the registered owner of ________________ Trust Preferred Securities of the Trust representing an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust and designated the MetLife Capital Trust III 4.91% Series B Trust Preferred Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Securities) (the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The Trust Preferred Securities are transferable on the books and records of the Trust, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer as provided in the Trust Agreement (as defined below). The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Trust Preferred Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Trust Preferred Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities as set forth therein. The Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Guarantee Agreement"), by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, to the extent provided therein. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has executed this certificate this day of METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III By: ____________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee C-3
PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Capital Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement. Dated: _______________ ________________________________ As Property Trustee By: ____________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee C-4
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Trust Preferred Security to: ________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) (Insert address and zip code of assignee) and irrevocably appoints ____________________ agent to transfer this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate on the books of the Trust. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Date: Signature:________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate) The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15. C-5

EXHIBIT 4.18 ================================================================================ GUARANTEE AGREEMENT by and between METLIFE, INC., as Guarantor and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee relating to METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II Dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
METLIFE, INC. Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be part of the Guarantee Agreement. 2
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) ii
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Guarantee Agreement"), between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"), having its principal executive offices at 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "Guarantee Trustee"), for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Trust Preferred Securities of METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"). RECITALS WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, of even date herewith (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees (each as named therein) and the holders from time to time of undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trust, the Trust is issuing $1,035,000,000 aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of its Trust Preferred Securities having the terms set forth in the Trust Agreement; and WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities will be issued by the Trust, and the proceeds thereof, together with the proceeds from the issuance of the Trust's Common Securities, will be used to purchase the Debentures, which Debentures will be deposited with J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee under the Trust Agreement, as trust assets; and WHEREAS, as an incentive for the Holders to purchase the Trust Preferred Securities, the Guarantor desires irrevocably and unconditionally to agree, to the extent set forth herein, to pay to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities the Guarantee Payments and to make certain other payments on the terms and conditions set forth herein. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase of Trust Preferred Securities by each Holder, which purchase the Guarantor hereby acknowledges shall benefit the Guarantor, the Guarantor executes and delivers this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders from time to time. ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.1 Definitions. For all purposes of this Guarantee Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) The terms defined in this Article I have the meanings assigned to them in this Article I, and include the plural as well as the singular; (b) All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation;" (d) All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles; (e) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Guarantee Agreement; and (f) The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Guarantee Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such Person or any person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors (or equivalent body) of such Person. "Base Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Guarantor or any committee of the board of directors of the Guarantor, comprised of one or more members of the board of directors of the Guarantor or officers of the Guarantor, or both. "Common Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Debentures" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Distributions" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Event of Default" means (i) a default by the Guarantor in any of its payment obligations under this Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) a default by the Guarantor in any other obligation hereunder that remains unremedied for 30 days. "Guarantee Agreement" means this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time. "Guarantee Payments" means the following payments or distributions, without duplication, with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent not paid or made by or on behalf of the Trust: (i) any accumulated and unpaid Distributions required to be paid on the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; (ii) the Redemption Price with respect to any Trust Preferred Securities called for 2
redemption by the Trust, to the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; and (iii) upon a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Trust, other than in connection with the distribution of Debentures to the Holders or the redemption of the Trust Preferred Securities, the lesser of (a) the Liquidation Distribution with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent that the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time, and (b) the amount of assets of the Trust remaining available for distribution to Holders on liquidation of the Trust. "Guarantee Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, solely in its capacity as Guarantee Trustee and not in its individual capacity, until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter means each such Successor Guarantee Trustee. "Guarantor" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement. "Holder" means any Holder (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of any Trust Preferred Securities; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite percentage of Trust Preferred Securities have given any request, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, "Holder" shall not include the Guarantor, the Guarantee Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Guarantor or the Guarantee Trustee. "Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Indenture Supplement" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "List of Holders" has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a). "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by any two Authorized Officers of such person. Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Guarantee Agreement shall include: (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto; (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by each officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate; (c) a statement that each officer has made such examination or investigation as, in each such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and 3
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, statutory or business trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature. "Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement. "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to the Guarantee Trustee, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the corporate trust department of the Guarantee Trustee and also means, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Senior Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of the Indenture Supplement. "Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Guarantor and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Successor Guarantee Trustee" means a successor Guarantee Trustee possessing the qualifications to act as Guarantee Trustee under Section 4.1. "Trust" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement. "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust referred to in the recitals to this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended as in force at the date as of which this Guarantee Agreement was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended. "Vice President," when used with respect to the Guarantor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president." 4
ARTICLE II TRUST INDENTURE ACT Section 2.1 Trust Indenture Act; Application. The Trust Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this Guarantee Agreement for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining the rights and obligations hereunder, and this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the case if this Guarantee Agreement were qualified under the Trust Indenture Act on the date hereof. If and to the extent that any provision of this Guarantee Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. Section 2.2 List of Holders. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee (a) semi-annually, on or before June 30 and December 31 of each year, a list, in such form as the Guarantee Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders (a "List of Holders") as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the delivery thereof, and (b) at such other times as the Guarantee Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Guarantor of any such request, a List of Holders as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished, in each case to the extent such information is in the possession or control of the Guarantor and has not otherwise been received by the Guarantee Trustee in its capacity as such. The Guarantee Trustee may destroy any List of Holders previously given to it on receipt of a new List of Holders. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Section 311(a), Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.3 Reports by the Guarantee Trustee. Within 60 days after May 15 each year, commencing May 15, 2006, the Guarantee Trustee shall provide to the Holders such reports as are required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, if any, in the form and in the manner provided by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act. If this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee shall also comply with the requirements of Section 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.4 Periodic Reports to the Guarantee Trustee. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders such documents, reports and information, if any, as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and the compliance certificate required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, provided that such documents, reports and information shall be required to be provided to the Securities and 5
Exchange Commission only if this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.5 Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee such evidence of compliance with such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Guarantee Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer of the Guarantor pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) may be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate. Section 2.6 Events of Default; Waiver. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences, other than an Event of Default arising from the nonpayment of amounts that shall have become due by the terms of this Guarantee Agreement. Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Guarantee Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 2.7 Event of Default; Notice. (a) The Guarantee Trustee shall, within 30 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders, notice of any such Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, unless such Event of Default has been cured before the giving of such notice, provided that, except in the case of a default in the payment of a Guarantee Payment, the Guarantee Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the Board of Directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Guarantee Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Guarantee Trustee shall have received written notice, or a Responsible Officer charged with the administration of this Guarantee Agreement shall have obtained written notice, of such Event of Default. Section 2.8 Conflicting Interests. The Trust Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. 6
ARTICLE III POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 3.1 Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) This Guarantee Agreement shall be held by the Guarantee Trustee for the benefit of the Holders, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not transfer this Guarantee Agreement to any Person except to a Successor Guarantee Trustee on acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment to act as Guarantee Trustee hereunder. The right, title and interest of the Guarantee Trustee, as such, hereunder shall automatically vest in any Successor Guarantee Trustee, upon acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment hereunder, and such vesting and cessation of title shall be effective whether or not conveyancing documents have been executed and delivered pursuant to the appointment of such Successor Guarantee Trustee. (b) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantee Trustee shall enforce this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders. (c) The Guarantee Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Guarantee Agreement against the Guarantee Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 2.6), the Guarantee Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (d) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Guarantee Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred: (A) the duties and obligations of the Guarantee Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1); and (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Guarantee Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement (but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Guarantee 7
Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement); (ii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantee Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Guarantee Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts upon which such judgment was made; (iii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of not less than a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) no provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall require the Guarantee Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Guarantee Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Guarantee Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. (e) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Guarantee Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Guarantee Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. Section 3.2 Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1: (i) The Guarantee Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or presented by the proper party or parties. (ii) Any direction or act of the Guarantor contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate unless otherwise prescribed herein. (iii) Whenever, in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established before taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (unless other evidence is herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate which, upon receipt of such request from the Guarantee Trustee, shall be promptly delivered by the Guarantor. 8
(iv) The Guarantee Trustee may consult with legal counsel, and the advice or opinion of such legal counsel with respect to legal matters shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. Such legal counsel may be legal counsel to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates and may be one of its employees. The Guarantee Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Guarantee Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction. (v) The Guarantee Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement at the request or direction of any Holder unless such Holder shall have provided to the Guarantee Trustee such adequate security and indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in complying with such request or direction, including such reasonable advances as may be requested by the Guarantee Trustee; nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Guarantee Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs. (vi) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Guarantee Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Guarantor and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation. (vii) The Guarantee Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder. (viii) Whenever in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (A) may request instructions from the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, (B) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received and shall not be liable to any Person for so refraining, and (C) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions. (b) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on the Guarantee Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which the Guarantee Trustee shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable 9
law, to perform any such act or acts or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to the Guarantee Trustee shall be construed to be a duty to act in accordance with such power and authority. (c) The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Preferred Securities and the Trust Agreement shall be taken as the statements of the Guarantor and the Trust, respectively, and the Guarantee Trustee assumes no responsibility for this correctness. The Guarantee Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee or the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 3.3 Compensation; Indemnity; Fees. The Guarantor agrees: (a) to pay to the Guarantee Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as may be agreed by the Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Guarantee Trustee upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Guarantee Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Guarantee Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence or bad faith; and (c) to indemnify the Guarantee Trustee, any Affiliate of the Guarantee Trustee and any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or agent of the Guarantee Trustee (each, an "Indemnified Person") for, and to hold each Indemnified Person harmless against, any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the part of the Indemnified Person, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Guarantee Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Guarantee Trustee will not claim or exact any lien or charge on any Guarantee Payments as a result of any amount due to it under this Guarantee Agreement. The provisions of this Section 3.3 shall survive the termination of this Guarantee Agreement or the resignation or removal of the Guarantee Trustee. 10
ARTICLE IV GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 4.1 Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility. (a) There shall at all times be a Guarantee Trustee which shall: (i) not be an Affiliate of the Guarantor; and (ii) be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and shall be a Person meeting the requirements of Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 4.1 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. (b) If at any time the Guarantee Trustee shall cease to be eligible to so act under Section 4.1(a), the Guarantee Trustee shall immediately resign in the manner and with the effect set out in Section 4.2. (c) If the Guarantee Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee and Guarantor shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 4.2 Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may be appointed or removed at any time by the action of the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Guarantee Trustee and the Guarantor (i) for cause or (ii) if a Debenture Event of Default (as defined in the Trust Agreement) shall have occurred and be continuing at any time. (b) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may resign from office (without need for prior or subsequent accounting) by giving written notice thereof to the Holders and the Guarantor and by appointing a successor Guarantee Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to the Guarantor. The Guarantee Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the requirements of Section 4.1(a) their expenses and charges to serve as the Guarantee Trustee, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges. (c) The Guarantee Trustee appointed hereunder shall hold office until a Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and shall have accepted such appointment. No removal or resignation of a Guarantee Trustee shall be effective until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment by written instrument executed by such Successor Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor and, in the case of any resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee. 11
(d) If no Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and accepted appointment as provided in this Section 4.2 within 60 days after delivery to the Holders and the Guarantor of a notice of resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Guarantor, any court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a Successor Guarantee Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after prescribing such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee. (e) If a resigning Guarantee Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if a Guarantee Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Guarantee Trustee and a replacement shall not be appointed prior to such resignation or removal, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Guarantee Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by the action of the Holders of record of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding (as defined in the Trust Agreement) delivered to such Guarantee Trustee, may appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee or Trustees. If no successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and accepted appointment, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Guarantee Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Guarantee Trustee. ARTICLE V GUARANTEE Section 5.1 Guarantee. The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to pay in full to the Holders the Guarantee Payments (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by or on behalf of the Trust), as and when due, regardless of any defense, right of set-off or counterclaim that the Trust may have or assert, except the defense of payment. The Guarantor's obligation to make a Guarantee Payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts by the Guarantor to the Holders or by causing the Trust to pay such amounts to the Holders. Section 5.2 Waiver of Notice and Demand. The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guarantee Agreement and of any liability to which it applies or may apply, presentment, demand for payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Guarantor, protest, notice of nonpayment, notice of dishonor, notice of redemption and all other notices and demands. Section 5.3 Obligations Not Affected. The obligations, covenants, agreements and duties of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall in no way be affected or impaired by reason of the happening from time to time of any of the following: 12
(a) the release or waiver, by operation of law or otherwise, of the performance or observance by the Trust of any express or implied agreement, covenant, term or condition relating to the Trust Preferred Securities to be performed or observed by the Trust; (b) the extension of time for the payment by the Trust of any portion of the Distributions (other than an extension of time for payment of Distributions that results from the extension of any interest payment period on the Debentures as provided in the Indenture), Redemption Price, Liquidation Distribution or any other sums payable under the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or the extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under, arising out of, or in connection with, the Trust Preferred Securities; (c) any failure, omission, delay or lack of diligence on the part of the Holders to enforce, assert or exercise any right, privilege, power or remedy conferred on the Holders pursuant to the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities, or any action on the part of the Trust granting indulgence or extension of any kind; (d) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment of debt of, or other similar proceedings affecting, the Trust or any of the assets of the Trust; (e) any invalidity of, or defect or deficiency in, the Trust Preferred Securities; (f) the settlement or compromise of any obligation guaranteed hereby or hereby incurred; or (g) any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor (other than payment of the underlying obligation), it being the intent of this Section 5.3 that the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. There shall be no obligation of the Holders to give notice to, or obtain the consent of, the Guarantor with respect to the happening of any of the foregoing. Section 5.4 Rights of Holders. The Guarantor expressly acknowledges that: (i) this Guarantee Agreement will be deposited with the Guarantee Trustee to be held for the benefit of the Holders; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee has the right to enforce this Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Holders; (iii) the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of this Guarantee Agreement or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) any Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Guarantor to enforce its rights under this Guarantee Agreement without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any other Person. 13
Section 5.5 Guarantee of Payment. This Guarantee Agreement creates a guarantee of payment and not of collection. This Guarantee Agreement will not be discharged except by payment of the Guarantee Payments in full (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by the Trust) or upon the distribution of Debentures to Holders as provided in the Trust Agreement. Section 5.6 Subrogation. The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights (if any) of the Holders against the Trust in respect of any amounts paid to the Holders by the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not (except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law) be entitled to enforce or exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation or any indemnity, reimbursement or other agreement, in all cases as a result of payment under this Guarantee Agreement, if, at the time of any such payment, any amounts are due and unpaid under this Guarantee Agreement. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence, the Guarantor agrees to hold such amount in trust for the Holders and to pay over such amount to the Holders. Section 5.7 Independent Obligations. The Guarantor acknowledges that its obligations hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities and that the Guarantor shall be liable as principal and as debtor hereunder to make Guarantee Payments pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement notwithstanding the occurrence of any event referred to in subsections (a) through (g), inclusive, of Section 5.3 hereof. ARTICLE VI COVENANTS AND SUBORDINATION Section 6.1 Subordination. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement will constitute unsecured obligations of the Guarantor and will rank subordinate and junior in right of payment to all Senior Debt of the Guarantor to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Indenture with respect to the Debt Securities (as defined therein), and the provisions of Article XV of the Base Indenture as modified by Section 6.1 of the Indenture Supplement will apply, mutatis mutandis, to the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder. The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder do not constitute Senior Debt of the Guarantor. Section 6.2 Pari Passu Guarantees. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall rank pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under (i) any similar guarantee agreements issued by the Guarantor on behalf of the holders of preferred or capital securities issued by any statutory trust, (ii) the Indenture and the Debt Securities (as defined therein) issued thereunder, (iii) any expense agreements entered into by the Guarantor in connection with the offering of preferred or capital 14
securities by any statutory trust, and (iv) any other security, guarantee or other agreement or obligation that is expressly stated to rank pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement or with any obligation that ranks pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement. Section 6.3 Guarantor Election to End Subordination. The Guarantor may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock Purchase Date, including in connection with a remarketing of the Trust Preferred Securities that its obligations hereunder shall be senior obligations instead of subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions of Section 6.1 hereof shall thereafter no longer apply to the obligations of Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement. The Guarantor shall give the Guarantee Trustee notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution. ARTICLE VII TERMINATION Section 7.1 Termination. This Guarantee Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon (i) full payment of the Redemption Price of all Trust Preferred Securities, (ii) the distribution of Debentures to the Holders in exchange for all of the Trust Preferred Securities or (iii) full payment of the amounts payable in accordance with Article IX of the Trust Agreement upon liquidation of the Trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guarantee Agreement will continue to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any Holder is required to repay any sums paid with respect to Trust Preferred Securities or this Guarantee Agreement. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Successors and Assigns. All guarantees and agreements contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall bind the successors, assigns, receivers, trustees and representatives of the Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities then outstanding. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Guarantor that is permitted under Article X of the Base Indenture and pursuant to which the successor or assignee agrees in writing to perform the Guarantor's obligations hereunder, the Guarantor shall not assign its obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment other than in accordance with this provision shall be void. Section 8.2 Amendments. Except with respect to any changes that do not adversely affect the rights of the Holders in any material respect (in which case no consent of the Holders will be required), this Guarantee Agreement may only be amended with the prior approval of the Holders of not less than a 15
Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities. The provisions of Article VI of the Trust Agreement concerning meetings of the Holders shall apply to the giving of such approval. Section 8.3 Notices. Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing, duly signed by the party giving such notice, and delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class mail as follows: (a) if given to the Guarantor, to the address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantor may give notice to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders: MetLife, Inc. 27-01 Queens Plaza North Long Island City, New York 11101 Attention: Treasurer Facsimile: (212) 578-0266 (b) if given to the Guarantee Trustee, to the address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantee Trustee may give notice to the Guarantor and Holders: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, NY 10004 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 with a copy to: MetLife Capital Trust II c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association 500 Stanton Christiana Road 3rd Floor/OPS4 Newark, Delaware 19713 Attention: Institutional Trust Services Facsimile: (302) 552-6280 (c) if given to any Holder, at the address set forth on the books and records of the Trust. All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given when received in person, telecopied with receipt confirmed, or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, except that if a notice or other document is refused delivery or cannot be delivered because of a changed address 16
of which no notice was given, such notice or other document shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date of such refusal or inability to deliver. Section 8.4 Benefit. This Guarantee Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Holders and is not separately transferable from the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 8.5 Governing Law. THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Section 8.6 Counterparts. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee Agreement as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC., as Guarantor By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. ----------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel ----------------------------- Name: Paul J. Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signer 18

EXHIBIT 4.19 ================================================================================ GUARANTEE AGREEMENT by and between METLIFE, INC., as Guarantor and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee relating to METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III Dated as of June 21, 2005 ================================================================================
METLIFE, INC. Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be part of the Guarantee Agreement. 2
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) ii
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Guarantee Agreement"), between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"), having its principal executive offices at 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "Guarantee Trustee"), for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Trust Preferred Securities of METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"). RECITALS WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, of even date herewith (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees (each as named therein) and the holders from time to time of undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trust, the Trust is issuing $1,035,000,000 aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of its Trust Preferred Securities having the terms set forth in the Trust Agreement; and WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities will be issued by the Trust, and the proceeds thereof, together with the proceeds from the issuance of the Trust's Common Securities, will be used to purchase the Debentures, which Debentures will be deposited with J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee under the Trust Agreement, as trust assets; and WHEREAS, as an incentive for the Holders to purchase the Trust Preferred Securities, the Guarantor desires irrevocably and unconditionally to agree, to the extent set forth herein, to pay to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities the Guarantee Payments and to make certain other payments on the terms and conditions set forth herein. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase of Trust Preferred Securities by each Holder, which purchase the Guarantor hereby acknowledges shall benefit the Guarantor, the Guarantor executes and delivers this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders from time to time. ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.1 Definitions. For all purposes of this Guarantee Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) The terms defined in this Article I have the meanings assigned to them in this Article I, and include the plural as well as the singular; (b) All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation;" (d) All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles; (e) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Guarantee Agreement; and (f) The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Guarantee Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such Person or any person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors (or equivalent body) of such Person. "Base Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Guarantor or any committee of the board of directors of the Guarantor, comprised of one or more members of the board of directors of the Guarantor or officers of the Guarantor, or both. "Common Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Debentures" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Distributions" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Event of Default" means (i) a default by the Guarantor in any of its payment obligations under this Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) a default by the Guarantor in any other obligation hereunder that remains unremedied for 30 days. "Guarantee Agreement" means this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time. "Guarantee Payments" means the following payments or distributions, without duplication, with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent not paid or made by or on behalf of the Trust: (i) any accumulated and unpaid Distributions required to be paid on the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; (ii) the Redemption Price with respect to any Trust Preferred Securities called for 2
redemption by the Trust, to the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; and (iii) upon a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Trust, other than in connection with the distribution of Debentures to the Holders or the redemption of the Trust Preferred Securities, the lesser of (a) the Liquidation Distribution with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent that the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time, and (b) the amount of assets of the Trust remaining available for distribution to Holders on liquidation of the Trust. "Guarantee Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, solely in its capacity as Guarantee Trustee and not in its individual capacity, until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter means each such Successor Guarantee Trustee. "Guarantor" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement. "Holder" means any Holder (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of any Trust Preferred Securities; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite percentage of Trust Preferred Securities have given any request, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, "Holder" shall not include the Guarantor, the Guarantee Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Guarantor or the Guarantee Trustee. "Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Indenture Supplement" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "List of Holders" has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a). "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by any two Authorized Officers of such person. Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Guarantee Agreement shall include: (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto; (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by each officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate; (c) a statement that each officer has made such examination or investigation as, in each such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and 3
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, statutory or business trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature. "Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement. "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to the Guarantee Trustee, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the corporate trust department of the Guarantee Trustee and also means, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Senior Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of the Indenture Supplement. "Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement. "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Guarantor and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. "Successor Guarantee Trustee" means a successor Guarantee Trustee possessing the qualifications to act as Guarantee Trustee under Section 4.1. "Trust" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement. "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust referred to in the recitals to this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended as in force at the date as of which this Guarantee Agreement was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended. "Vice President," when used with respect to the Guarantor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president." 4
ARTICLE II TRUST INDENTURE ACT Section 2.1 Trust Indenture Act; Application. The Trust Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this Guarantee Agreement for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining the rights and obligations hereunder, and this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the case if this Guarantee Agreement were qualified under the Trust Indenture Act on the date hereof. If and to the extent that any provision of this Guarantee Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. Section 2.2 List of Holders. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee (a) semi-annually, on or before June 30 and December 31 of each year, a list, in such form as the Guarantee Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders (a "List of Holders") as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the delivery thereof, and (b) at such other times as the Guarantee Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Guarantor of any such request, a List of Holders as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished, in each case to the extent such information is in the possession or control of the Guarantor and has not otherwise been received by the Guarantee Trustee in its capacity as such. The Guarantee Trustee may destroy any List of Holders previously given to it on receipt of a new List of Holders. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Section 311(a), Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.3 Reports by the Guarantee Trustee. Within 60 days after May 15 each year, commencing May 15, 2006, the Guarantee Trustee shall provide to the Holders such reports as are required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, if any, in the form and in the manner provided by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act. If this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee shall also comply with the requirements of Section 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.4 Periodic Reports to the Guarantee Trustee. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders such documents, reports and information, if any, as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and the compliance certificate required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, provided that such documents, reports and information shall be required to be provided to the Securities and 5
Exchange Commission only if this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.5 Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee such evidence of compliance with such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Guarantee Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer of the Guarantor pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) may be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate. Section 2.6 Events of Default; Waiver. The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences, other than an Event of Default arising from the nonpayment of amounts that shall have become due by the terms of this Guarantee Agreement. Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Guarantee Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 2.7 Event of Default; Notice. (a) The Guarantee Trustee shall, within 30 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders, notice of any such Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, unless such Event of Default has been cured before the giving of such notice, provided that, except in the case of a default in the payment of a Guarantee Payment, the Guarantee Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the Board of Directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Guarantee Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Guarantee Trustee shall have received written notice, or a Responsible Officer charged with the administration of this Guarantee Agreement shall have obtained written notice, of such Event of Default. Section 2.8 Conflicting Interests. The Trust Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. 6
ARTICLE III POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 3.1 Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) This Guarantee Agreement shall be held by the Guarantee Trustee for the benefit of the Holders, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not transfer this Guarantee Agreement to any Person except to a Successor Guarantee Trustee on acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment to act as Guarantee Trustee hereunder. The right, title and interest of the Guarantee Trustee, as such, hereunder shall automatically vest in any Successor Guarantee Trustee, upon acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment hereunder, and such vesting and cessation of title shall be effective whether or not conveyancing documents have been executed and delivered pursuant to the appointment of such Successor Guarantee Trustee. (b) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantee Trustee shall enforce this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders. (c) The Guarantee Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Guarantee Agreement against the Guarantee Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 2.6), the Guarantee Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (d) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Guarantee Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred: (A) the duties and obligations of the Guarantee Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1); and (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Guarantee Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement (but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Guarantee 7
Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement); (ii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantee Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Guarantee Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts upon which such judgment was made; (iii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of not less than a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) no provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall require the Guarantee Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Guarantee Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Guarantee Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. (e) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Guarantee Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Guarantee Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. Section 3.2 Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1: (i) The Guarantee Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or presented by the proper party or parties. (ii) Any direction or act of the Guarantor contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate unless otherwise prescribed herein. (iii) Whenever, in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established before taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (unless other evidence is herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate which, upon receipt of such request from the Guarantee Trustee, shall be promptly delivered by the Guarantor. 8
(iv) The Guarantee Trustee may consult with legal counsel, and the advice or opinion of such legal counsel with respect to legal matters shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. Such legal counsel may be legal counsel to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates and may be one of its employees. The Guarantee Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Guarantee Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction. (v) The Guarantee Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement at the request or direction of any Holder unless such Holder shall have provided to the Guarantee Trustee such adequate security and indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in complying with such request or direction, including such reasonable advances as may be requested by the Guarantee Trustee; nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Guarantee Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs. (vi) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Guarantee Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Guarantor and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation. (vii) The Guarantee Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder. (viii) Whenever in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (A) may request instructions from the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, (B) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received and shall not be liable to any Person for so refraining, and (C) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions. (b) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on the Guarantee Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which the Guarantee Trustee shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable 9
law, to perform any such act or acts or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to the Guarantee Trustee shall be construed to be a duty to act in accordance with such power and authority. (c) The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Preferred Securities and the Trust Agreement shall be taken as the statements of the Guarantor and the Trust, respectively, and the Guarantee Trustee assumes no responsibility for this correctness. The Guarantee Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee or the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 3.3 Compensation; Indemnity; Fees. The Guarantor agrees: (a) to pay to the Guarantee Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as may be agreed by the Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Guarantee Trustee upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Guarantee Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Guarantee Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence or bad faith; and (c) to indemnify the Guarantee Trustee, any Affiliate of the Guarantee Trustee and any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or agent of the Guarantee Trustee (each, an "Indemnified Person") for, and to hold each Indemnified Person harmless against, any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the part of the Indemnified Person, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Guarantee Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Guarantee Trustee will not claim or exact any lien or charge on any Guarantee Payments as a result of any amount due to it under this Guarantee Agreement. The provisions of this Section 3.3 shall survive the termination of this Guarantee Agreement or the resignation or removal of the Guarantee Trustee. 10
ARTICLE IV GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 4.1 Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility. (a) There shall at all times be a Guarantee Trustee which shall: (i) not be an Affiliate of the Guarantor; and (ii) be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and shall be a Person meeting the requirements of Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 4.1 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. (b) If at any time the Guarantee Trustee shall cease to be eligible to so act under Section 4.1(a), the Guarantee Trustee shall immediately resign in the manner and with the effect set out in Section 4.2. (c) If the Guarantee Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee and Guarantor shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 4.2 Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may be appointed or removed at any time by the action of the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Guarantee Trustee and the Guarantor (i) for cause or (ii) if a Debenture Event of Default (as defined in the Trust Agreement) shall have occurred and be continuing at any time. (b) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may resign from office (without need for prior or subsequent accounting) by giving written notice thereof to the Holders and the Guarantor and by appointing a successor Guarantee Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to the Guarantor. The Guarantee Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the requirements of Section 4.1(a) their expenses and charges to serve as the Guarantee Trustee, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges. (c) The Guarantee Trustee appointed hereunder shall hold office until a Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and shall have accepted such appointment. No removal or resignation of a Guarantee Trustee shall be effective until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment by written instrument executed by such Successor Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor and, in the case of any resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee. 11
(d) If no Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and accepted appointment as provided in this Section 4.2 within 60 days after delivery to the Holders and the Guarantor of a notice of resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Guarantor, any court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a Successor Guarantee Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after prescribing such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee. (e) If a resigning Guarantee Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if a Guarantee Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Guarantee Trustee and a replacement shall not be appointed prior to such resignation or removal, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Guarantee Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by the action of the Holders of record of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of the Trust Preferred Securities then Outstanding (as defined in the Trust Agreement) delivered to such Guarantee Trustee, may appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee or Trustees. If no successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and accepted appointment, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Guarantee Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Guarantee Trustee. ARTICLE V GUARANTEE Section 5.1 Guarantee. The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to pay in full to the Holders the Guarantee Payments (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by or on behalf of the Trust), as and when due, regardless of any defense, right of set-off or counterclaim that the Trust may have or assert, except the defense of payment. The Guarantor's obligation to make a Guarantee Payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts by the Guarantor to the Holders or by causing the Trust to pay such amounts to the Holders. Section 5.2 Waiver of Notice and Demand. The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guarantee Agreement and of any liability to which it applies or may apply, presentment, demand for payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Guarantor, protest, notice of nonpayment, notice of dishonor, notice of redemption and all other notices and demands. Section 5.3 Obligations Not Affected. The obligations, covenants, agreements and duties of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall in no way be affected or impaired by reason of the happening from time to time of any of the following: 12
(a) the release or waiver, by operation of law or otherwise, of the performance or observance by the Trust of any express or implied agreement, covenant, term or condition relating to the Trust Preferred Securities to be performed or observed by the Trust; (b) the extension of time for the payment by the Trust of any portion of the Distributions (other than an extension of time for payment of Distributions that results from the extension of any interest payment period on the Debentures as provided in the Indenture), Redemption Price, Liquidation Distribution or any other sums payable under the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or the extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under, arising out of, or in connection with, the Trust Preferred Securities; (c) any failure, omission, delay or lack of diligence on the part of the Holders to enforce, assert or exercise any right, privilege, power or remedy conferred on the Holders pursuant to the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities, or any action on the part of the Trust granting indulgence or extension of any kind; (d) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment of debt of, or other similar proceedings affecting, the Trust or any of the assets of the Trust; (e) any invalidity of, or defect or deficiency in, the Trust Preferred Securities; (f) the settlement or compromise of any obligation guaranteed hereby or hereby incurred; or (g) any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor (other than payment of the underlying obligation), it being the intent of this Section 5.3 that the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. There shall be no obligation of the Holders to give notice to, or obtain the consent of, the Guarantor with respect to the happening of any of the foregoing. Section 5.4 Rights of Holders. The Guarantor expressly acknowledges that: (i) this Guarantee Agreement will be deposited with the Guarantee Trustee to be held for the benefit of the Holders; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee has the right to enforce this Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Holders; (iii) the Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of this Guarantee Agreement or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) any Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Guarantor to enforce its rights under this Guarantee Agreement without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any other Person. 13
Section 5.5 Guarantee of Payment. This Guarantee Agreement creates a guarantee of payment and not of collection. This Guarantee Agreement will not be discharged except by payment of the Guarantee Payments in full (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by the Trust) or upon the distribution of Debentures to Holders as provided in the Trust Agreement. Section 5.6 Subrogation. The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights (if any) of the Holders against the Trust in respect of any amounts paid to the Holders by the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not (except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law) be entitled to enforce or exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation or any indemnity, reimbursement or other agreement, in all cases as a result of payment under this Guarantee Agreement, if, at the time of any such payment, any amounts are due and unpaid under this Guarantee Agreement. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence, the Guarantor agrees to hold such amount in trust for the Holders and to pay over such amount to the Holders. Section 5.7 Independent Obligations. The Guarantor acknowledges that its obligations hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities and that the Guarantor shall be liable as principal and as debtor hereunder to make Guarantee Payments pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement notwithstanding the occurrence of any event referred to in subsections (a) through (g), inclusive, of Section 5.3 hereof. ARTICLE VI COVENANTS AND SUBORDINATION Section 6.1 Subordination. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement will constitute unsecured obligations of the Guarantor and will rank subordinate and junior in right of payment to all Senior Debt of the Guarantor to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Indenture with respect to the Debt Securities (as defined therein), and the provisions of Article XV of the Base Indenture as modified by Section 6.1 of the Indenture Supplement will apply, mutatis mutandis, to the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder. The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder do not constitute Senior Debt of the Guarantor. Section 6.2 Pari Passu Guarantees. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall rank pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under (i) any similar guarantee agreements issued by the Guarantor on behalf of the holders of preferred or capital securities issued by any statutory trust, (ii) the Indenture and the Debt Securities (as defined therein) issued thereunder, (iii) any expense agreements entered into by the Guarantor in connection with the offering of preferred or capital 14
securities by any statutory trust, and (iv) any other security, guarantee or other agreement or obligation that is expressly stated to rank pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement or with any obligation that ranks pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement. Section 6.3 Guarantor Election to End Subordination. The Guarantor may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock Purchase Date, including in connection with a remarketing of the Trust Preferred Securities that its obligations hereunder shall be senior obligations instead of subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions of Section 6.1 hereof shall thereafter no longer apply to the obligations of Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement. The Guarantor shall give the Guarantee Trustee notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution. ARTICLE VII TERMINATION Section 7.1 Termination. This Guarantee Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon (i) full payment of the Redemption Price of all Trust Preferred Securities, (ii) the distribution of Debentures to the Holders in exchange for all of the Trust Preferred Securities or (iii) full payment of the amounts payable in accordance with Article IX of the Trust Agreement upon liquidation of the Trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guarantee Agreement will continue to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any Holder is required to repay any sums paid with respect to Trust Preferred Securities or this Guarantee Agreement. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.1 Successors and Assigns. All guarantees and agreements contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall bind the successors, assigns, receivers, trustees and representatives of the Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities then outstanding. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Guarantor that is permitted under Article X of the Base Indenture and pursuant to which the successor or assignee agrees in writing to perform the Guarantor's obligations hereunder, the Guarantor shall not assign its obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment other than in accordance with this provision shall be void. Section 8.2 Amendments. Except with respect to any changes that do not adversely affect the rights of the Holders in any material respect (in which case no consent of the Holders will be required), this Guarantee Agreement may only be amended with the prior approval of the Holders of not less than a 15
Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities. The provisions of Article VI of the Trust Agreement concerning meetings of the Holders shall apply to the giving of such approval. Section 8.3 Notices. Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing, duly signed by the party giving such notice, and delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class mail as follows: (a) if given to the Guarantor, to the address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantor may give notice to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders: MetLife, Inc. 27-01 Queens Plaza North Long Island City, New York 11101 Attention: Treasurer Facsimile: (212) 578-0266 (b) if given to the Guarantee Trustee, to the address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantee Trustee may give notice to the Guarantor and Holders: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association Worldwide Securities Services 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor New York, NY 10004 Attention: Worldwide Securities Services Telephone: (212) 623-5233 Facsimile: (212) 623-6215 with a copy to: MetLife Capital Trust III c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association 500 Stanton Christiana Road 3rd Floor/OPS4 Newark, Delaware 19713 Attention: Institutional Trust Services Facsimile: (302) 552-6280 (c) if given to any Holder, at the address set forth on the books and records of the Trust. All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given when received in person, telecopied with receipt confirmed, or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, except that if a notice or other document is refused delivery or cannot be delivered because of a changed address 16
of which no notice was given, such notice or other document shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date of such refusal or inability to deliver. Section 8.4 Benefit. This Guarantee Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Holders and is not separately transferable from the Trust Preferred Securities. Section 8.5 Governing Law. THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Section 8.6 Counterparts. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee Agreement as of the day and year first above written. METLIFE, INC., as Guarantor By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr. ------------------------------- Name: Title: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee By: /s/ Paul Schmalzel ------------------------------- Name: Paul Schmalzel Title: Authorized Signer

Exhibit 5.1 [LEBOEUF, LAMB, GREENE & MACRAE LLP LETTERHEAD] June 21, 2005 MetLife, Inc. 2701 Queens Plaza North Long Island City, New York 11101 Re: MetLife, Inc. - Offering of 82,800,000 6.375% Common Equity Units ----------------------------------------------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as special counsel for MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the sales by the Company of an aggregate of 82,800,000 6.375% Common Equity Units (the "Common Equity Units") of the Company pursuant to the registration statement (Registration No. 333-124358, 333-124358-01 and 333-124358-02) filed by the Company, MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Series A Trust"), MetLife Capital Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust ( ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act") and the related prospectus of the Company dated April 27, 2005, as supplemented by a prospectus supplement, dated June 15, 2005, relating to the Common Equity Units, as filed in final form with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 17, 2005 pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act. Each Common Equity Unit will have a stated amount of $25.00 prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date (as defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined below)) and $12.50 thereafter. Each Common Equity Unit will initially consist of (i) a stock purchase contract (each, a "Stock Purchase Contract") under which the holder will agree to purchase and the Company will agree to sell on each of two dates determined in or pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, in its capacity as Stock Purchase Contract Agent (the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" and, such agreement, the "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement") for a price of $12.50 per Common Equity Unit a number of shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), determined pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, (ii) a 1/80, or 1.25%, undivided beneficial
MetLife, Inc. June 21, 2005 Page 2 ownership interest in a preferred security (the "Series A Trust Preferred Securities") issued pursuant to the amended and restated declaration of trust dated as June 21, 2005 (the "Series A Declaration of Trust") of the Series A Trust, with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000, and (iii) a 1/80, or 1.25%, undivided beneficial ownership interest in a preferred security (the "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" the Series B Trust Preferred Securities and the Series A Trust Preferred Securities each being a series of "Trust Preferred Securities") pursuant to the amended and restated declaration of trust dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Series B Declaration of Trust" the Series B Declaration of Trust and the Series A Declaration of Trust, each being a "Declaration of Trust") of the Series B Trust, with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000 (such Common Equity Units being the "Normal Common Equity Units"). Each Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit, may from time to time, in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, substitute zero coupon treasury securities for each series of Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Holders Normal Common Equity Units ( such Common Equity Units, following any such substitution, being the "Stripped Common Equity Units"). A holder's ownership interest in the Series A and Series B Trust Preferred Securities initially will be pledged to secure such holder's obligation to purchase Common Stock on each of two dates, such pledge to be on the terms and conditions set forth in the Pledge Agreement (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as collateral agent (the "Collateral Agent"), custodial agent (the "Custodial Agent") and securities intermediary (the "Securities Intermediary") and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. For purposes of this letter, we have examined the certificates representing the Common Equity Units, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, Pledge Agreement, the certificates representing the Trust Preferred Securities and the Declarations of Trust (collectively, the "Transaction Documents"). In addition, we have examined originals (or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction) of such other agreements, instruments, certificates, documents and records and have reviewed such questions of law and made such inquiries as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of the opinions expressed herein. In such examination, we have assumed, without inquiry, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures on all documents examined by us, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to the original documents of all such documents submitted to us as copies and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. We have also assumed that the books and records of the Company are maintained in accordance with proper corporate procedures. As to any facts material to our opinions, we have, when relevant facts were not independently established by us, relied upon the agreements, instruments, certificates, documents and records referred to above and upon statements and certificates of officers and representatives of the Company and public officials. In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have assumed without independent investigation or inquiry that: (i) each of the parties to the Transaction Documents (other than the Company) has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party; (ii) each of the Transaction Documents has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the parties thereto (other than the Company) and is a valid and binding obligation of such party enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms; (iii) the Stock Purchase Contracts constitutes valid and binding obligations of the holders of the Common Equity Units enforceable against such holders in accordance with their terms; (iv) the Common Equity Units have been duly
MetLife, Inc. June 21, 2005 Page 3 authenticated by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in the manner provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; and (v) the Trust Preferred Securities have been duly authenticated by the Property Trustee (as defined in each Declaration of Trust) in the manner provided in each Declaration of Trust. Based upon and subject to the foregoing, and subject to the further qualifications, assumptions and limitations set forth below, we are of the opinion that: 1. The Normal Common Equity Units have been validly issued and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their; 2. The Stripped Common Equity Units have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor in accordance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms; and 3. The shares of Common Stock to be issued and sold by the Company pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contracts have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor in accordance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. Our opinion in paragraph 1 is subject to the effects of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium and other similar laws now or hereafter in effect affecting creditors' rights generally; (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such principles are considered in a proceeding in law or equity) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and standards of materiality. The opinions expressed above are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States. We consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 21, 2005, which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and the Final Prospectus, and to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Opinions" contained in the Final Prospectus. In giving our consent, we do not thereby concede that we come within the category of persons whose consent is required by the Act or the General Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder. Very truly yours, /s/ LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP

Exhibit 5.2 [Letterhead of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A.] June 21, 2005 MetLife Capital Trust II One Madison Avenue New York, New York 10010 Re: MetLife Capital Trust II Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as special Delaware counsel for MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), in connection with the matters set forth herein. At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you. For purposes of giving the opinions hereinafter set forth, our examination of documents has been limited to the examination of copies of the following: (a) The Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of State") on May 17, 2001, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment thereto, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on January 16, 2004, and the Certificate of Amendment pursuant to Section 3807(E) of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on March 14, 2005, by Chase Bank USA, National Association (collectively, the "Certificate"); (b) The Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001, among the Company and the trustees of the Trust named therein; (c) The Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of January 16, 2004; (d) The Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of June 15, 2005; (e) The Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust (including Exhibits B-3 and C thereto), dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Declaration"),
MetLife Capital Trust II June 21, 2005 Page 2 among the Company, the trustees of the Trust named therein, and the holders, from time to time, of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust; (f) A Current Report on Form 8-K, as proposed to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about June 21, 2005 (the "Current Report"); (g) The Prospectus, dated April 27, 2005, as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, dated June 15, 2005 (as so supplemented, the "Prospectus") relating, inter alia, to the preferred securities of the Trust, representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust (each, a "Preferred Security" and collectively, the "Preferred Securities"); and (h) A Certificate of Good Standing for the Trust, dated June 20, 2005, obtained from the Secretary of State. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined are used as defined in the Declaration. For purposes of this opinion, we have not reviewed any documents other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (h) above. In particular, we have not reviewed any document (other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (h) above) that is referred to in or incorporated by reference into the documents reviewed by us. We have assumed that there exists no provision in any document that we have not reviewed that is inconsistent with the opinions stated herein. We have conducted no independent factual investigation of our own but rather have relied solely upon the foregoing documents, the statements and information set forth therein and the additional matters recited or assumed herein, all of which we have assumed to be true, complete and accurate in all material respects. With respect to all documents examined by us, we have assumed that (i) all signatures on documents examined by us are genuine, and (ii) all documents submitted to us as copies conform with the originals of those documents. For purposes of this opinion, we have assumed (i) that the Declaration and the Certificate are in full force and effect and have not been amended, (ii) except to the extent provided in paragraph 1 below, that each of the parties to the documents examined
MetLife Capital Trust II June 21, 2005 Page 3 by us has been duly created, organized or formed, as the case may be, and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction governing its creation, organization or formation, (iii) the legal capacity of each natural person who is a signatory to the documents examined by us, (iv) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, such documents, (v) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has duly authorized, executed and delivered such documents, (vi) the receipt by each Person to whom a Preferred Security has been issued by the Trust (collectively, the "Preferred Security Holders") of a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate for such Preferred Security and the payment for the Preferred Security acquired by it, in accordance with the Declaration and the Prospectus, and (vii) that the Preferred Securities have been issued and sold to the Preferred Security Holders in accordance with the Declaration and the Prospectus. We have not participated in the preparation of the Current Report or the Prospectus and assume no responsibility for their contents. This opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the securities and blue sky laws of the State of Delaware), and we have not considered and express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction, including federal laws and rules and regulations relating thereto. Our opinions are rendered only with respect to Delaware laws and rules, regulations and orders thereunder that are currently in effect. Based upon the foregoing, and upon our examination of such questions of law and statutes of the State of Delaware as we have considered necessary or appropriate, and subject to the assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that: 1. The Trust has been duly created and is validly existing in good standing as a statutory trust under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, 12 Del. C. ss.3801, et seq. (the "Trust Act"). 2. The Preferred Securities have been duly authorized and represent valid and, subject to the qualifications set forth in paragraph 3 below, fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. 3. The Preferred Security Holders, as beneficial owners of the Trust, are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of
MetLife Capital Trust II June 21, 2005 Page 4 Delaware. We note that the Preferred Security Holders may be obligated to make payments as set forth in the Declaration. We consent to the filing of this opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit the to the Company's filing of the Current Report. In giving the foregoing consent, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of Persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder. Except as stated above, without our prior written consent, this opinion may not be furnished or quoted to, or relied upon by, any other Person for any purpose. Very truly yours, /s/ Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. BJK/RSM

Exhibit 5.3 [Letterhead of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A.] June 21, 2005 MetLife Capital Trust III One Madison Avenue New York, New York 10010 Re: MetLife Capital Trust III ------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as special Delaware counsel for MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and MetLife Capital Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), in connection with the matters set forth herein. At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you. For purposes of giving the opinions hereinafter set forth, our examination of documents has been limited to the examination of copies of the following: (a) The Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of State") on May 17, 2001, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment thereto, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on January 16, 2004, and the Certificate of Amendment pursuant to Section 3807(E) of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on March 14, 2005, by Chase Bank USA, National Association (collectively, the "Certificate"); (b) The Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001, among the Company and the trustees of the Trust named therein; (c) The Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of January 16, 2004; (d) The Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated as of June 15, 2005; (e) The Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust (including Exhibits B-3 and C thereto), dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Declaration"),
MetLife Capital Trust III June 21, 2005 Page 2 among the Company, the trustees of the Trust named therein, and the holders, from time to time, of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust; (f) A Current Report on Form 8-K, as proposed to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about June 21, 2005 (the "Current Report"); (g) The Prospectus, dated April 27, 2005, as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, dated June 15, 2005 (as so supplemented, the "Prospectus") relating, inter alia, to the preferred securities of the Trust, representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust (each, a "Preferred Security" and collectively, the "Preferred Securities"); and (h) A Certificate of Good Standing for the Trust, dated June 20, 2005, obtained from the Secretary of State. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined are used as defined in the Declaration. For purposes of this opinion, we have not reviewed any documents other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (h) above. In particular, we have not reviewed any document (other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (h) above) that is referred to in or incorporated by reference into the documents reviewed by us. We have assumed that there exists no provision in any document that we have not reviewed that is inconsistent with the opinions stated herein. We have conducted no independent factual investigation of our own but rather have relied solely upon the foregoing documents, the statements and information set forth therein and the additional matters recited or assumed herein, all of which we have assumed to be true, complete and accurate in all material respects. With respect to all documents examined by us, we have assumed that (i) all signatures on documents examined by us are genuine, and (ii) all documents submitted to us as copies conform with the originals of those documents. For purposes of this opinion, we have assumed (i) that the Declaration and the Certificate are in full force and effect and have not been amended, (ii) except to the extent provided in paragraph 1 below, that each of the parties to the documents examined
MetLife Capital Trust III June 21, 2005 Page 3 by us has been duly created, organized or formed, as the case may be, and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction governing its creation, organization or formation, (iii) the legal capacity of each natural person who is a signatory to the documents examined by us, (iv) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, such documents, (v) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has duly authorized, executed and delivered such documents, (vi) the receipt by each Person to whom a Preferred Security has been issued by the Trust (collectively, the "Preferred Security Holders") of a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate for such Preferred Security and the payment for the Preferred Security acquired by it, in accordance with the Declaration and the Prospectus, and (vii) that the Preferred Securities have been issued and sold to the Preferred Security Holders in accordance with the Declaration and the Prospectus. We have not participated in the preparation of the Current Report or the Prospectus and assume no responsibility for their contents. This opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the securities and blue sky laws of the State of Delaware), and we have not considered and express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction, including federal laws and rules and regulations relating thereto. Our opinions are rendered only with respect to Delaware laws and rules, regulations and orders thereunder that are currently in effect. Based upon the foregoing, and upon our examination of such questions of law and statutes of the State of Delaware as we have considered necessary or appropriate, and subject to the assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that: 1. The Trust has been duly created and is validly existing in good standing as a statutory trust under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, 12 Del. C.ss.3801, et seq. (the "Trust Act"). 2. The Preferred Securities have been duly authorized and represent valid and, subject to the qualifications set forth in paragraph 3 below, fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. 3. The Preferred Security Holders, as beneficial owners of the Trust, are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of
MetLife Capital Trust III June 21, 2005 Page 4 Delaware. We note that the Preferred Security Holders may be obligated to make payments as set forth in the Declaration. We consent to the filing of this opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit the to the Company's filing of the Current Report. In giving the foregoing consent, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of Persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder. Except as stated above, without our prior written consent, this opinion may not be furnished or quoted to, or relied upon by, any other Person for any purpose. Very truly yours, /s/ Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. BJK/RSM


