FILE:MET/MET-8K-20071228160530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On December 21, 2007, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., amended and restated Part I of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan (the "Auxiliary Plan"). The Auxiliary Plan provides benefits which participants would receive under the (tax-qualified) Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees (the "Retirement Plan") if limitations on the amounts that can be paid under the Retirement Plan were not imposed by the United States Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). Each of MetLife, Inc.'s named executive officers (as defined in Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K) who remains currently employed by MetLife, Inc. or its affiliates (the "active named executive officers") is a participant in the Auxiliary Plan.
     The terms of Part I of the Auxiliary Plan, as amended and restated (effective January 1, 2008) (the "2008 Auxiliary Plan Amendment"), as they affect the active named executive officers, are substantially similar to (and supersedes) those set forth in Part I of the Auxiliary Plan, as amended and restated (effective January 1, 2007) (the "2007 Auxiliary Plan Amendment"), filed as Exhibit 10.57 to MetLife, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, except that:
     The foregoing description of the 2008 Auxiliary Plan Amendment is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to (i) the complete text of the Auxiliary Plan, which, as in effect prior to the 2008 Auxiliary Plan Amendment and the 2007 Auxiliary Plan Amendment, is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and (ii) the 2008 Auxiliary Plan Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable.
(b) Not applicable.
(c) Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 28, 2007
 

 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Company") hereby amends and restates Part I of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan ("Plan") effective January 1, 2008.
     To the extent that there is any conflict between Part I and Part II of this Plan document, Part I contains the provisions of the Plan that govern 409A Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(a) of Part I. All references to "409A" or "section 409A" in this Plan are references to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code") and the regulations thereunder. Part II contains the provisions of the Plan (as in effect on October 3, 2004) that govern Grandfathered Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(b) of Part I, if any, under the Plan.
Article 1. .
Purpose of Plan
The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants employed by the employers (each an "Employer") participating under the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees ("Retirement Plan") and his/her beneficiaries, the excess amount that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under (i) section 415 of the Code, (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) section 1.415-2(d)(2) of the Income Tax Regulations, that excludes compensation deferred under the Company's or an Employer's deferred compensation arrangements.
Except for terms defined in this Plan, all capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the same definition and meaning assigned to those terms under the Retirement Plan.
Article 2.
Participation
A Participant in the Plan is any Employee that is eligible under Section 2.1, 2.2 or 2.3 below:
2.1. An Employee of an Employer participating in the Retirement Plan:
1
 
shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles except Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A.
2.2. . "PRA/PLS Benefit" means a benefit that is either a Personal Retirement Account benefit or a Performance Pension Account benefit under the Retirement Plan. Likewise, any benefit referred to as a "non PRA/PLS Benefit" or "not a PRA/PLS Benefit" refers to benefits under the Retirement Plan that are not PRA/PLS Benefits.
PRA/PLS Benefit
An Employee of an Employer with a benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit participating in the Retirement Plan who:
shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles.
If an Employee is an eligible Participant in the Plan under Section 2.1 of this Article, and on or after January 1, 1995, he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, then the portion of his/her benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit that has accrued to that Employee shall be determined and payable as if the Employee was always eligible under Section 2.2 of this Article. If, after qualifying as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, an individual's compensation grade drops below level 36 (or its equivalent), or the individual ceases to qualify for the Chairman's Council, then that individual shall continue to be treated as if he or she meets the requirements of Section 2.2 of this Article.
2.3. An Employee of an Employer participating in the Retirement Plan:
shall be eligible, on January 1, 2001, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A. Such individual shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Article 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the
2
 
New England plans named above) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. Such individual shall be eligible to participate in this Plan as stated in Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A if he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2000.
shall be eligible, on January 1, 2003, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A. Such individual shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Section 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the Augmented Benefit Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. Such individual shall be eligible to participate in Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A of this Plan if he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2002.
Article 3.
Vesting
A Participant will vest in his/her accrued benefit, described in Article 4.2, under this Plan in accordance with the vesting schedule under the Retirement Plan.
Should a Change of Control occur, as defined in Article 8, all benefits accrued by a Participant under this Plan prior to the Change of Control, shall vest if, and when, the Participant satisfies the vesting schedule that existed under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control, unless the accelerated vesting provisions in Article 8.2 apply.
Article 4.
Payment of Benefits
4.1. Definitions.
3
 
4.2. Benefits under this Plan shall be payable to a Participant in an amount equal to the difference, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, between (a) and (b) below:
4.3.
Distribution of 409A Benefits
4
 
5
 
4.4 Notwithstanding the default forms of payment listed in Article 4.3 above:
6
 
4.5. . A Participant who commenced minimum distributions of their benefit under this Plan on or before December 31, 2007, will continue to have such distributions calculated as provided under the Retirement Plan and paid to them in accordance with the existing schedule.
Minimum Distribution
7
 
For all other Participants, payment of benefits under this Plan will not be affected by, or subject to, minimum distributions as described under section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the treasury regulations thereunder..
4.6 Only for an individual who is eligible under Section 2.2, Final Average Compensation used to determine the largest amount that would have been payable under Article 4.2(a) above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the Retirement Plan.
For an eligible Participant that is not a Commissioned Employee Final Average Compensation will be the sum of (a) and (b) below:
Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of bonus/award was already approved under the AVIP, prior to the Participant's date of Retirement or termination,
8
 
such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant's last 3 bonuses/awards with regard to any bonus/award payable for the Participant's year of Retirement or termination.
If, at the time of Retirement or termination, fewer than 5 AVIP payments have been made to a Participant, then the AVIP component of Final Average Compensation shall be the average of: all AVIP payments actually made to the Participant and the projected payment (described above) for the year of Retirement or termination.
For an eligible Participant who is a Commissioned Employee Final Average Compensation will be the amount described in appropriate provisions of the Retirement Plan.
4.7 Except as described in (a) through (e) immediately below, Grandfathered Benefits shall be payable in the same form(s) and at the same times as benefits are payable under the Retirement Plan.
will have his/her benefits paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times and in the form provided for under the provisions of those prior plans.
will have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times, and in the form provided for under the provisions of that prior plan.
9
 
4.8 Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the payment of benefits under this Plan shall not be affected by, or be subject to, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity and qualified joint and survivor annuity rules under the Retirement Equity Act of 1984.
Article 4A.
Alternative Distribution
Alternative forms of distribution are available to those individuals who are eligible Participants under Section 2.2 herein on or before December 31, 2008. The ability to elect an Alternative form of distribution may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted to Participants who do not qualify under Section 2.2 of the Plan, but who, as of December 31, 2008, have a PRA benefit and meet any of the requirements in (a) through (d) of Section 2.2 of the Plan. Alternative forms of distribution may be elected by eligible Participants on or before December 31, 2008 and may apply to his/her 409A benefit as allowed under the transition relief provided under 409A. After December 31, 2008, alternative forms of distribution can only be elected by an eligible Participant under Section 2.2 herein for his/her Grandfathered Benefits.
4A.1 Definitions
10
 
4A.2.
Payment in the Form of an Alternative Distribution.
In order to receive an Alternative Distribution: (i) a request form must be duly filed by the Participant in compliance with both the provisions of this Article 4A and the procedures as set forth from time to time by the Committee, (ii) consent thereto must be given by the Committee, and (iii) payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be made pursuant to a request form that satisfies 409A and the regulations thereunder.
4A.3.
Election of Alternative Distribution.
A form requesting that 409A Benefits be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be consistent with the requirements of Code section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator and must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than December 31, 2008.
A form requesting that Grandfathered Benefits under this Plan be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be made in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph. The form must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than the day before the Participant's Retirement date. For Participants who are separating from service with the Company or an Employer before they are Benefit Eligible, the form requesting an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow the format prescribed by the Committee. On the request form the Participant must also designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant's Retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by the Participant to the Committee on the day that such form is received by the Committee. Prior to the Participant's Retirement date, the request form can be revoked by the Participant. Any revocation must be in writing and comply with the procedures of the Committee. A request form
11
 
submitted by the Participant shall become irrevocable and binding as to all elections and designations made by the Participant as of the Retirement date. In the event that a Participant's request form is not filed before his/her Retirement date, the Participant's Plan benefits will be paid in the same form as the benefits paid to the Participant under the Retirement Plan. For Participants who separate from service before they are Benefit Eligible, the request form shall become irrevocable and binding, as to all elections and designations, 12 months before the Distribution Date.
4A.4.
Consent of the Committee.
Payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution shall require the consent of the Committee. The Committee shall have full and complete discretion to approve or reject any request for an Alternative Distribution. The decision of the Committee on the Participant's request form shall be made known to the Participant in writing.
4A.5. .
Death of Participant Before Distribution Date
12
 
In the absence of a designation by the Participant, the death benefit, under (a) or (b) immediately above, shall be paid to the Participant's surviving spouse in a single sum. If the Participant has no surviving spouse at the time of death, then the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
4A.6.
Valuation of Alternative Benefit
4A.7.
Interest on Deferred Installments
A Benefit Eligible individual who elects to defer benefit payments under the terms of this Article 4A, shall receive interest from the date he/she separates from service to the date that benefit payments commence. Interest will be calculated based on the entire amount that the Participant has deferred. Interest will be credited using the SIP Rate in effect on the Election Date and will be compounded annually from the date of separation from
13
 
service to the date payments commence. The interest accrued prior to payment commencement will be added to the accrued Plan benefit to produce a total benefit amount. This total benefit amount will be credited with the SIP Rate for the duration of the payment(s) and divided by the number of installment payments, if any, due under the Participant's election to produce uniform payments under the Plan. This interest will be part of the Participant's 409A Benefit and will be paid in accordance with 409A.
4A.8.
Power of Committee.
The Committee shall have the discretionary power to make any and all administrative decisions regarding the election and payment of an Alternative Distribution, including but not limited to, (i) the design and format of request forms, (ii) the approval or rejection of requests for an Alternative Distribution, (iii) the design and format of revocation forms and (iv) the sending of notices.
Article 5. .
Unfunded Plan
The Plan is completely unfunded. Except as obligations under this Plan have been undertaken pursuant to plans or other arrangements offered by another company, obligations under this Plan are obligations of the Company. All obligations under this Plan are entirely separate from the Retirement Plan and any other plan. Participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Retirement Plan, or any other plan. The fact that contracts or certificates may be distributed to recipients of benefits under the Retirement Plan in discharge of obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge of obligations under this Plan.
Article 6.
Non-transferability of Participant's Interest
With the exception of a valid court order determined by the Plan Administrator to be a QDRO, no Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the Plan benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.
Article 7.
Effect of Taxes
Payments under this Plan shall be made after withholding of any Federal, state or local income, employment or other taxes, legally obligated to be withheld. All tax liabilities arising out of benefits under this Plan are the sole obligation of the Plan Participant(s) or his/her beneficiary, including but not limited to, any tax liabilities that may arise under section 409A. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary incurs greater tax burdens from payments under this Plan (whether income, employment, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been made from the Retirement Plan, neither the Company nor any other person shall have an obligation to reimburse the Participant or beneficiary for such greater tax burdens.
14
 
Article 8.
Change of Control
8.1. .
Definitions
15
 
8.2.
Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions
In the event that:
16
 
then the Participant's unvested benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control in each, the Retirement Plan and this Plan, will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other provision of the Retirement Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.
These accrued benefits will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this Plan are described in Article 4 and where applicable, Article 4A as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control. If this Section 8.2 is triggered, a Participant under Section 2.2 does not have to obtain Committee approval for an Alternate Distribution in the form of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period, to the extent that an Alternative Distribution is available to that Participant under 409A.
Article 9.
Interpretation of the Plan
Article 10.
Governing Law
To the extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed according to the laws of the State of New York.
Article 11.
Amendment and Termination of Plan
11.1. Except to the extent prohibited by law, the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any such amendment or termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:
17
 
However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan consistent with section 409A, including, but not limited to:
Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Committee, shall be effective only if authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors of the Company.
11.2.
cannot have the vesting schedule under Article 3, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits. The Company may not wrongfully deny Participants the opportunity to vest in rights or benefits accrued prior to a Change of Control under this Plan.
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
18


