FILE:MET/MET-8K-20081208071833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Investor Day Conference on December 8, 2008 and may be used by the company in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Investor Day Conference on December 8, 2008 and may be used by the company in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
      On December 8, 2008, MetLife, Inc. issued a press release announcing expected 2008 financial results and 2009 guidance, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      (a) Not applicable.
      (b) Not applicable.
      (c) Not applicable.
      (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 8, 2008
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ruth A. Fattori Executive Vice President & Chief Administrative Officer MetLife, Inc.
Ruth A. Fattori is executive vice president and chief administrative officer of MetLife, Inc. She was named to this position in January 2008.
As chief administrative officer, Fattori oversees MetLife's human resources, corporate ethics and compliance, audit, corporate communications, advertising and brand management, corporate security, corporate real estate and corporate procurement functions.
Prior to joining MetLife, Fattori was executive vice president, human resources for Motorola, Inc., with responsibility for attracting and retaining outstanding talent, anticipating business trends, developing top performers and providing them with appropriate career challenges. Fattori also had responsibility for loss prevention and security. In addition, she provided stewardship to Motorola's diversity and inclusion initiatives and played a key role in embedding a high-tech, quality-focused, customer-driven culture in Motorola employees.
Fattori joined Motorola in November 2004 from JPMorgan Chase & Co., where she was senior vice president, responsible for human resources, communications, productivity and quality for the global technology infrastructure group. Previously, Fattori worked for Conseco, Inc., as executive vice president, process and productivity. She also has served as senior vice president, human resources for Siemens Corporation, the U.S. entity of Siemens AG, and as vice president, human resources for the worldwide industry segment of Asea Brown Boveri.
At GE Capital, Fattori was managing director of European operations, based in London, and also served as vice president and chief quality officer. In the latter role, she successfully deployed the first Six Sigma initiative in a financial services company. Fattori began her career as an advanced manufacturing engineer for Xerox Corporation and later served in a number of service operations leadership roles for Xerox.
Fattori holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell University.
She serves on the boards of trustees of Polytechnic Institute of NYU and the board of governors of the Boys and Girls Club of America in Atlanta.
 
C. Robert (Rob) Henrikson Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer MetLife, Inc.
C. Robert (Rob) Henrikson is chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET), the largest life insurer in the U.S. and a leading provider of insurance and financial services to more than 70 million customers worldwide.
Appointed CEO and chairman in March and April 2006, respectively, Henrikson has led MetLife to achieve record financial results while capitalizing on emerging trends in several markets around the globe. In 2007, MetLife earned $54 billion in annual revenue and ranked 43 on the FORTUNE 500. MetLife was named by as the best managed insurance company in the U.S. for 2008.
rd
Forbes
Henrikson has positioned MetLife to expand its domestic leadership positions and capitalize on emerging life, annuity and retirement markets outside the U.S. In addition to counting over 90 of the top one hundred FORTUNE 500 companies among its corporate clients, MetLife is a leading provider of group insurance and retirement & savings offerings, including group life, group dental and institutional annuities. MetLife also is the largest life insurer in Mexico, and has strong and growing positions in several markets, including Japan, South Korea and Chile. The company offers products and services to customers in the U.S., Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe.
Henrikson is a board member and chairman-elect of the American Council of Life Insurers, chairman of the Financial Services Forum and a board member emeritus of the American Benefits Council. He also serves on the National Board of Advisors at the Morehouse School of Medicine, the board of directors of The New York Botanical Garden and the New York Philharmonic, and is a trustee of the American Museum of Natural History.
Henrikson received a B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law. His dedication to both institutions continues, serving as chairman of the board of Wharton's S.S. Huebner Foundation for Insurance Education and as an alumni trustee of Emory University.
He resides in Connecticut with his wife of more than 30 years, Mary. They have two grown sons and a grandson.
 
Steven A. Kandarian Executive Vice President & Chief Investment Officer MetLife, Inc.
Steven A. Kandarian is executive vice president and chief investment officer of MetLife, Inc. He joined the company in April 2005. As CIO, Kandarian is responsible for MetLife's investment department and the company's $324 billion general account portfolio.
Since joining MetLife, Kandarian has overseen a number of initiatives and strategies that have benefited MetLife's investment portfolio and contributed to MetLife's bottom line. He was instrumental in the sale of MetLife's Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in 2006, which resulted in a gain of approximately $3 billion, net of income taxes. Under his leadership, MetLife identified the housing bubble early and reduced its exposure to sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, increased the overall quality of its corporate credit portfolio, and increased its focus on low loan-to-value commercial and agricultural mortgages.
Prior to joining MetLife, Kandarian was the executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) from 2001 to 2004. He made the public case for comprehensive reform of the pension funding rules to put the defined benefit system and the PBGC on a sound financial footing. In addition, under Kandarian's leadership, the PBGC adopted a new investment policy ensuring that, going forward, its assets be structured to better match liability durations.
Before joining the PBGC, Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion Partners, LP. From 1990 to 1993, he served as president and founder of Eagle Capital Holdings, where he formed a private merchant bank to sponsor equity investments in small and mid-sized businesses. Prior to establishing Eagle Capital Holdings, from 1984 to 1990, he was managing director of Lee Capital Holdings, a private equity firm based in Boston.
Previously, he held positions in corporate merger and acquisitions and leveraged buyouts at State Street Bank and Trust and LCB Holdings, Inc. Prior to joining LCB, Kandarian was an investment banker with Houston-based Rotan Mosle, Inc., where he had responsibility for a broad range of projects, including initial public offerings, mergers and acquisitions and private placements.
Kandarian previously served as a member of the board of trustees for MassMutual Corporate Investors, MassMutual Participation Investors and MassMutual Premier Funds. He received a B.A. from Clark University, a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and a M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
 
James Lipscomb Executive Vice President & General Counsel MetLife, Inc.
James Lipscomb is executive vice president and general counsel of MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in July 2003.
Lipscomb oversees the company's legal affairs group with responsibility for the global operation of the MetLife law and government and industry relations departments. He also provides advice to the board of directors and management on corporate governance and business operations.
From 2001 to 2003, Lipscomb served as senior vice president and deputy general counsel. Prior to this role, he was president and chief executive officer of Conning Corporation, a former MetLife subsidiary, and oversaw its asset management portfolio, private equity group, real estate loan origination and servicing platform, equity broker dealer and insurance industry research group. In addition, Lipscomb led MetLife's corporate planning and strategy department from 1998 to 2000. He also served as a senior vice president in MetLife's real estate investments department. Lipscomb first joined MetLife in 1972 as an attorney.
Throughout his career, Lipscomb has held leadership positions in various local, state and national legal organizations, including the American College of Real Estate Lawyers, the State Bar of California and the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, where he served as treasurer and a member of the executive committee. He has spoken widely on many legal topics.
His civic affiliations include serving as chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission of New York, director of the Life Insurance Council of New York, trustee of the Practising Law Institute, director of Graffiti Ministries, Inc. and a member of the Economic Club of New York as well as the Center of Hope (Haiti), Inc. Advisory Board. Lipscomb also serves as a member of the board of directors of several MetLife subsidiaries  General American Life Insurance Company, Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and MetLife Foundation.
Lipscomb received a B.A. from Howard University, a J.D. from Columbia University Law School and a L.L.M. (Corporations) from New York University. He is a member of the state bar in New York and California and the federal bar in the Northern District of California, the Southern District of New York, the Second Circuit and the U.S. Supreme Court.
Lipscomb was named to Magazine's 2006 list of the top 50 most influential in-house counsel in North America and was recognized especially for diversity initiatives.
Inside Counsel
 
Maria R. Morris Executive Vice President, Technology & Operations MetLife, Inc.
Maria R. Morris is executive vice president and head of technology and operations for MetLife. She was appointed to this position in January 2008.
In this role, Morris oversees MetLife's information technology organization as well as the customer sales and service group, capability sourcing and global operations support center.
Previously, Morris served as executive vice president, employee benefits sales within the Institutional Business segment for MetLife. Since December 2005 she oversaw the group insurance and retirement and savings sales forces that generated approximately $14 billion in annual revenue. Under Morris's leadership, Institutional Business achieved record sales and drove strong revenue growth in part to the retention and expansion of the company's extensive client relationships.
From 2003 to 2005, Morris served as senior vice president of group insurance sales and individual disability. In this role, she was responsible for MetLife's small business center, group regional operations and individual disability product and sales. In 2004, she assumed oversight of the company's National Accounts organization as well as voluntary benefits and group insurance service operations.
As the vice president of MetLife's group disability business from 2000 to 2003, Morris had profit and loss responsibility overseeing product development and management as well as claims operations. From 1996 to 2000, Morris had similar responsibilities for MetLife's dental product and also managed the preferred dentist network. Under her leadership, revenue grew 20% and profitability grew 200%, while an efficient claims model was implemented. Morris joined MetLife in 1984 as an account administrator in the company's National Accounts organization and has since held a number of roles with increasing responsibility.
She received a B.A. from Franklin and Marshall College, magna cum laude, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Morris is a selected member of the YWCA Academy of Women Achievers. In 2005, she was recognized by Magazine as one of a number of "Women to Watch."
Profiles in Diversity Journal
Maria Morris serves as a board member of MetLife Services East Private Limited (MSEPL), MetLife Global Operations Support Center Private Limited (MGOSC) and MetLife Securities, Inc. She also serves on INROADS national board of directors and All Stars Project, Inc. board of directors, a non-profit organization focused on developing young people.
 
William J. Mullaney President, Institutional Business MetLife, Inc.
William J. Mullaney is president of MetLife's Institutional Business division, which provides benefit solutions to more than 61,000 group customers in the United States, including over 90 of the top one hundred FORTUNE 500 companies. Through these relationships, MetLife products and services reach nearly 40 million employees. Today, MetLife is a leading provider of many group insurance and retirement & savings offerings, including group life, group dental and institutional annuities.
After Mullaney was promoted to head Institutional Business in January 2007, the business achieved its best top- and bottom-line results that year. Previously, Mullaney served as the president of MetLife Auto & Home, MetLife's $3 billion personal lines property & casualty subsidiary that insures nearly 4 million autos and homes nationwide. Under Mullaney's leadership, Auto & Home delivered record operating earnings despite some of the worst hurricanes in U.S. history. At the same time, the company distinguished itself for its quick and compassionate response to customers affected by these natural disasters. From 2002 through 2004, Mullaney served as senior vice president for claims and customer service at Auto & Home, where he oversaw claims, business operations and services, and customer retention initiatives as well as the project management office.
From 1998 to 2002, Mullaney was responsible for MetLife's voluntary benefits business. In this role, he was responsible for creating and managing the sales, marketing and service platform for MetLife's employee paid workplace products, including group life, group auto & home and group long-term care insurance, as well as products offered by MetLife's Hyatt Legal subsidiary. During the four years he oversaw the business, revenue increased by 50 percent. In 2000, he received added responsibility for MetLife's national service center, which provides financial and administrative services to middle market customers in MetLife's Institutional Business segment.
From 1996 to 1998, Mullaney served as the vice president overseeing MetLife's relationship with the company's largest institutional customer  General Motors. Prior to this position, he headed MetLife's National Accounts customer units in Schaumburg, IL and Orange, CA and also led the National Accounts claim operations. He was promoted to vice president in 1990 and joined MetLife in 1982.
Mullaney currently serves as the Chairman of the New York Blood Center's Volunteer Leadership Campaign and is a member of the board of directors for the Employee Benefit Research Institute; MetLife Auto & Home and MetLife Bank. He has also previously served on the boards of the Insurance Information Institute, Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and the Rhode Island Philharmonic, among others. In 2007 and 2008, Mullaney was named to "Business 100," recognizing the top 100 Irish-American business leaders in the United States. He received a B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh, his M.B.A. from Pace University and a chartered life underwriter designation from The American College.
Irish America Magazine's
 
Conor Murphy Vice President, Investor Relations MetLife
Conor Murphy is vice president and head of investor relations for MetLife. He was appointed to this position in November 2007.
In this role, Murphy manages the coordination and execution of presenting MetLife's financial results, messages and strategies to the analyst and investor community.
Before being named to his current position, Murphy was vice president and chief financial officer for MetLife's investments department since July 2002. His various responsibilities included financial reporting & analysis, investment income projections, performance measurement & attribution, portfolio valuation and the Sarbanes-Oxley processes for investments.
Prior to joining the investments department, Murphy served in MetLife's internal audit department, where he was responsible for various groups, including investments and investment affiliate auditing operations. Affiliate operations included investment advisor, mutual fund, broker dealer and trust company subsidiaries. He was also responsible for the Reinsurance Group of America (RGA) audit functions. MetLife, Inc. was the beneficial owner of approximately 52% of RGA's outstanding shares before divesting its majority stake in the company in September 2008.
Murphy joined MetLife in October 2000 after seven years with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he served in the New York Financial Services Industry Practice. Prior to PricewaterhouseCoopers, he spent five years with Grant Thornton LLP in Dublin, Ireland.
Murphy is a founding trustee of Cristo Rey New York High School and a past president of the Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States. In 2008, Murphy was among a select group of 50 Irish-American business leaders honored at the 11 annual "Wall Street 50" awards.
th
He is a certified public accountant and a member of the Massachusetts Society of CPAs. Murphy is also a chartered accountant and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
 
William J. Toppeta President, International MetLife, Inc.
William J. Toppeta is president, International for MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in July 2001 and is responsible for all of the company's insurance and employee benefits businesses outside the United States.
Under his leadership, MetLife continues to successfully expand its operations in three key regions outside of the U.S.: Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe.
Since Toppeta was named president, International's revenues have grown from $1.2 billion in 2001 to $5.4 billion in 2007. As a result of MetLife's 2005 acquisition of substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s international insurance businesses, MetLife's presence outside the U.S. has expanded to now reach over 17 million customers in multiple countries and territories.
Toppeta has focused MetLife's International business on growth  both organically and through acquisitions. He was the principal architect of MetLife's acquisition and integration of Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. in Mexico, where MetLife is now the largest life insurer. He also expanded MetLife's operations in South Korea, Chile, Brazil, India and China.
Prior to assuming his current role, Toppeta served as MetLife's president of client services and chief administrative officer from 1999 to 2001. Prior to this position, he oversaw MetLife's Individual Business segment after having led the U.S. career agency force for three years. In 1995, he was named senior vice president to lead MetLife's corporate reengineering department.
After being named vice president and deputy general manager of MetLife's Canadian operations in 1992, he became president and CEO of Metropolitan Life's Canadian operations in 1993. Toppeta also served as executive assistant to former CEO, Richard R. Shinn, and was appointed assistant vice president in the office of the president in 1979. He began his career at MetLife in 1973 as an attorney in the law department.
Toppeta is a member of the board of the President's Council of Fordham University, vice chairman of the International Committee of the American Council of Life Insurers, and serves on the board of directors of the Council of the Americas, U.S.-India Business Council, and Coalition of Services Industries. He also serves as a director of MetLife Foundation, MetLife Investors, MetLife Securities, New England Securities and Walnut Street Securities among others.
He holds a B.A. from Fordham College as well as a J.D. and a LL.M from New York University's School of Law.
 
Lisa M. Weber President, Individual Business MetLife, Inc.
Lisa M. Weber oversees Individual Business and Auto & Home for MetLife, Inc., a global leader in insurance and other financial services. Combined operating earnings for both units have doubled under her leadership to nearly $2 billion. In 2007, the combined businesses' revenue grew to nearly $19 billion.
Since being named to the position in 2004, Weber has pursued a strategy emphasizing face-to-face advice that meets the critical protection and retirement income needs of over 13 million clients. She oversees a distribution system with more than 11,000 affiliated advisors and 160,000 points of sale as well as an annuity and life portfolio with offerings in every major market segment. Weber played a critical role in the successful integration of the Travelers Life & Annuity acquisition in 2005, which dramatically expanded the company's presence in the independent marketplace through third-party distributors.
During her tenure, MetLife's annuity sales have increased at a compound annual growth rate in excess of 14%. The company claimed the #1 spot in the VARDS industry ranking of variable annuity sales for the third quarter of 2008. Weber also strengthened the company's broker-dealer platform. In addition, client assets have increased to more than $195 billion.
Under her leadership, MetLife Auto & Home's performance has continued to be strong. Solid claims management, disciplined underwriting and innovative product design have led to three straight years of growth in total clients and earnings.
From 2001 to 2004, Weber served as MetLife's senior executive vice president and chief administrative officer. In this position, she was responsible for MetLife's worldwide brand and communications, human resources, corporate ethics and compliance, audit, corporate services, security as well as the company's philanthropic efforts through MetLife Foundation.
A veteran across the securities and banking industries, before joining MetLife, Weber spent more than 10 years at PaineWebber. She previously held leadership roles at Merrill Lynch and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
Weber is a member of the boards of several MetLife subsidiaries, including MetLife Bank and MetLife Auto & Home as chair. She served as a director on the board of Reinsurance Group of America (NYSE: RGA) from 2004 to 2006. She is a director of MetLife Foundation and a trustee of Northeast Region Boys & Girls Clubs of America. She holds a B.A. from the State University of New York at Stony Brook where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
 
William J. Wheeler Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer MetLife, Inc.
William J. Wheeler is executive vice president and chief financial officer of MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in December 2003.
As chief financial officer, Wheeler is responsible for overseeing all financial management matters for MetLife. This includes financial reporting, treasury, corporate actuarial, risk management, tax and mergers and acquisitions.
In addition, in June 2006, he was named the executive officer responsible for MetLife Bank, which offers retail banking products, including money market accounts, certificates of deposit, residential mortgages and reverse mortgages.
In 2005, Wheeler oversaw the teams that negotiated the acquisition of, and secured all the necessary financing for, MetLife's purchase of Travelers Life & Annuity and related international insurance businesses from Citigroup Inc.  MetLife's largest acquisition in its 140-year history.
Before being promoted to chief financial officer, from 2002 to 2003 Wheeler was the head of product management, marketing and business development activities in the company's Individual Business segment. Prior to this role and after MetLife's initial public offering in 2000, Wheeler served as the chief financial officer of the company's Institutional Business. In this position, he oversaw financial reporting and planning, as well as expense management for that segment.
Wheeler joined the company in 1997 as treasurer and played a key role in preparing MetLife to become a public company. He oversaw certain aspects of the demutualization, the development of investor relations and shareholder services organizations, and management of the initial public offering process and related transactions.
Before joining MetLife, Wheeler was an investment banker for ten years at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ). During his career at DLJ, he managed a variety of transactions, including equity and debt financings, mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, financial advisory and restructurings in a number of different industries, including the insurance industry.
Wheeler is a member of Wabash College's board of trustees. He holds an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and also received an A.B., magna cum laude, and was awarded Phi Beta Kappa from Wabash College.

NEW YORK, December 8, 2008  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) today announced its expected results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 and provided several financial targets for 2009. Members of MetLife's senior management team will discuss the company's businesses at the company's annual investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. today.
Premiums, fees and other revenues for the fourth quarter of 2008 are expected to be between $7.9 and $8.5 billion, compared with $7.7 billion for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year 2008, premiums, fees and other revenues are expected to be between $32.7 and $33.3 billion compared with $29.8 billion for 2007.
Strong Revenue Growth
"With an 11% expected increase in top line results for 2008, MetLife's core businesses continued to perform extremely well during the year, despite strong economic headwinds," said C. Robert Henrikson, chairman, president & chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. "Furthermore, with a very strong excess capital position, a well-diversified investment portfolio and a diverse mix of businesses, MetLife continues to stand apart in the industry. Clients recognize our financial strength and long-term approach as valuable differentiators, and this has translated into us holding strong leadership positions in both group and individual insurance. We are well positioned for the future, though clearly we are not immune from several market factors impacting our bottom line results this quarter."
 
For the fourth quarter of 2008, MetLife expects net income to be between $1.2 billion, or $1.50 per share, and $2.0 billion, or $2.55 per share, compared with $1.1 billion, or $1.44 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2007. Fourth quarter 2008 net income is expected to benefit from net realized investment gains, net of income tax, of between $1.2 and $1.8 billion, reflecting relatively modest credit losses and substantial derivative gains.
Fourth Quarter & Full Year 2008 Net Income
As a result, MetLife expects full year 2008 net income to be between $3.3 billion, or $4.52 per share, and $4.1 billion, or $5.60 per share, compared with $4.3 billion, or $5.62 per share, for 2007.
MetLife's core businesses continued to perform well during the fourth quarter of 2008, however the company's earnings results for the quarter are expected to be impacted by a significant decline in variable investment income and the poor equity markets. For the fourth quarter of 2008, MetLife expects to report operating results of between ($50) million, or ($0.05) per share, and $150 million, or $0.20 per share, compared with $1.2 billion, or $1.54 per share, of operating earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Fourth Quarter & Full Year 2008 Operating Earnings
As a result, MetLife projects full year 2008 operating earnings to be between $2.6 billion, or $3.50 per share, and $2.8 billion, or $3.75 per share, compared with $4.6 billion, or $6.01 per share, in 2007.
During 2009, MetLife expects to generate between $3.0 billion, or $3.60 per share, and $3.3 billion, or $4.00 per share, in operating earnings for the year. This projection does not reflect an anticipated charge of $70 million, net of income tax, or $0.08 per share, related to the company's Operational Excellence initiative. The company's plan for 2009 includes revenue growth of 4% to 5%, solid underwriting results, low variable investment income and assumes a 5% increase in the S&P 500 during 2009.
Full Year 2009 Goals
"The competitive advantage that MetLife maintains in the marketplace will continue to serve us well next year," added Henrikson. "However, we do recognize that, in 2009, a number of challenges posed by both the equity and credit markets will continue to make for a difficult environment. Nevertheless, our established leadership in the U.S., combined with strong growth prospects in our International Business, positions us well for long-term success."
MetLife will hold its annual investor conference today from 8:00 a.m. to approximately 12:30 p.m. (ET). A live audio and video Webcast of the conference, along with the presentation materials, will be available at www.metlife.com (through a link on the Investor Relations page). A replay of the conference will be available at MetLife's Web site beginning shortly after the conference ends on December 8, until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on December 15, 2008. The presentations made at the conference will include statements relating to the business, operations, management and financial results of MetLife, Inc., including its prospects for the remainder of 2008, as well as for 2009 and beyond.
Investor Day Audio & Video Webcast
 
Assumptions included in MetLife's estimated fourth quarter and full year 2008 and projected full year 2009 results are discussed in detail in the slide presentations to be presented at MetLife's annual investor conference, which are included in a Current Report on Form 8-K that is being furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All references in this press release to net income, net income per share, operating earnings and operating earnings per share should be read as net income available to common shareholders, net income available to common shareholders per diluted common share, operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, respectively.
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures
The historical and forward-looking financial information presented in this press release includes performance measures which are based on methodologies other than Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). MetLife analyzes its performance using so-called non-GAAP measures, including operating earnings, operating earnings available to common shareholders, operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share and operating return on common equity. MetLife believes these measures enhance the understanding and comparability of its performance by excluding net investment gains and losses, net of income tax, and adjustments related to net investment gains and losses, net of income tax, both of which can fluctuate significantly from period to period, and discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, net of income tax, thereby highlighting the results from operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business.
Operating earnings is defined as GAAP net income, excluding net investment gains and losses, net of income tax, adjustments related to net investment gains and losses, net of income tax, and discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, net of income tax. Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment are included in operating earnings.
Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends, which are recorded in Corporate & Other.
Operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share is calculated by dividing operating earnings available to common shareholders by the number of weighted average diluted common shares outstanding for the period indicated.
Operating return on common equity is calculated by dividing operating earnings available to common shareholders by average common equity for the period indicated, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income.
For the historical periods presented, reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures used in this press release to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the Appendix of the presentation materials and are on the Investor Relations portion of MetLife, Inc.'s website (www.metlife.com). Additional information about MetLife's historical financial results is available in the company's Quarterly Financial Supplements for the corresponding periods which
 
may be accessed through the company's website. The non-GAAP measures used in this press release should not be viewed as substitutes for the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
In this press release, MetLife provides guidance on its future earnings and earnings per diluted common share on an operating and non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is not accessible on a forward-looking basis because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or without the range and from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
Forward Looking Statements
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining MetLife's actual future results. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These factors include: (i) difficult and adverse conditions in the global and domestic capital and credit markets; (ii) continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; (iii) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's plan to purchase large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions; (iv) the impairment of other financial institutions; (v) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from MetLife's participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (vi) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (vii) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect the company's ability to raise capital and generate fee income and market-related revenue; (viii) defaults on the company's mortgage and consumer loans; (ix) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (x) market value impairments to illiquid assets; (xi) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (xii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (xiii) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the company's products and establishing the liabilities for the company's obligations for future
 
policy benefits and claims; (xiv) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xv) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (xvi) catastrophe losses; (xvii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (xviii) downgrades in MetLife's and its affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xix) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to the company's international operations; (xx) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the company's products or services; (xxi) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (xxii) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xxiii) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (xxiv) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xxv) MetLife's ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (xxvi) MetLife, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; and (xxvii) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.
Celebrating 140 years, MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, please visit www.metlife.com.
About MetLife


