FILE:MET/MET-8K-20080815170638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 3.03. MATERIAL MODIFICATION TO RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
     The information set forth and the exhibits identified in Item 8.01 are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
     On August 12, 2008, MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), entered into a Pricing Agreement (the "Pricing Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and the other institutions named therein (the "Remarketing Agents") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent (the "Purchase Contract Agent"), relating to the remarketing of debt securities constituting part of the Company's 6.375% Common Equity Units (the "Units"). The Pricing Agreement was entered into pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement dated July 11, 2008, among the Company, the Remarketing Agents and the Purchase Contract Agent and sets forth the terms upon which $1,029,805,000 aggregate principal amount of such debt securities were remarketed on behalf of the holders of Units. The Pricing Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. On August 15, 2008, the remarketing was successfully concluded, and the debt securities were denominated the Company's 6.817% Senior Debt Securities, Series A, Due 2018 (the "Series A Debentures"). A form of the securities certificate representing the Series A Debentures is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Series A Debentures were issued pursuant to an Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as Trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 7, 2008, between the Company and the Trustee, and have terms described in the Company's Prospectus Supplement relating to the remarketing dated August 12, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2008 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(a) Not applicable (b) Not applicable (c) Not applicable (d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 15, 2008
 

THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS THE NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
     This securities certificate certifies that Cede & Co. is the registered Holder of the 6.817% Senior Debt Securities, Series A, due 2018 (the "") set forth above or such other number of Series A Debentures reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in the Global Certificate attached hereto.
Series A Debentures
     MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof)) for value received, hereby promises to pay to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent (as defined in the Remarketing Agreement dated July 11, 2008 among MetLife, Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC (the "Remarketing Agents," which expression shall include any institution(s) appointed as a Remarketing Agent in accordance with Section 8 of the Remarketing Agreement), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the holders of Purchase Contracts) , the Accreted Principal Amount (as defined in the Indenture) on August 15, 2018 (the ""). This Series A Debenture shall bear interest as specified on the reverse hereof.
Company
Stated Maturity Date
     This Series A Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.
 
     The provisions of this Series A Debenture are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed.
Dated: August ___, 2008
METLIFE, INC.
 
     This is one of the Series A Debentures referred to in the Indenture.
Dated:
 
     This 6.817% Senior Debt Securities, Series A, due 2018 (the "") have been issued as a duly authorized series of the Company under and pursuant to a Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association) (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the Trustee (the "") and, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated August 15, 2008 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture, the ""), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Series A Debentures.
Series A Debentures
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Sixth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     The Series A Debentures are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of MetLife, Inc.'s other senior unsecured debt to the extent provided in the Indenture.
     This Series A Debenture will bear interest from August 15, 2008 at the rate per annum equal to 6.817%; such interest shall be payable in cash, semi-annually in arrears on the Interest Payment Dates following six months and twelve months after August 15, 2008 and thereafter on the respective anniversaries thereof. Interest on this Series A Debenture shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any period shorter than a full semi-annual period for which interest is computed will be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in that 180-day period. Interest payable on this Series A Debenture on any Interest Payment Date will include interest for the immediately preceding Interest Period. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest payment, which shall be the first day of the month in which such interest payment is due. Any interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Series A Debenture not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Series A Debentures may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date set for payment of the Redemption Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this Series A Debenture) or if interest due hereon (or any portion of such interest), is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate borne by this Series A Debenture, compounded at the end of such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable as set forth in the Indenture.
     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of the Redemption Price and at the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures to Holders who surrender Series A Debentures to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Series A Debentures; provided that if any Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Holder of record as of the applicable regular record date. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Series A Debentures. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date) falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no
 
interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business Day, but if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then that payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on that date. If the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date of this Series A Debenture would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue and no principal will accrete for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date to such next succeeding Business Day.
     No sinking fund is provided for the Series A Debentures. The entire principal amount of the Series A Debentures will mature and become due and payable, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon including compounded interest, if any, on August 15, 2018.
     The Series A Debentures will be redeemable at MetLife, Inc.'s option in whole or in part, at any time, on or after August 15, 2010, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption and the "Make-Whole Redemption Amount" (as defined herein). "Make-Whole Redemption Amount" means the sum, as calculated by the Premium Calculation Agent, of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon for the principal amount to be redeemed (not including any portion of those payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted from their respective scheduled payment dates to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 45 basis points plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
     For purposes of the preceding definitions:
 
     If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Series A Debentures, the Trustee will select the Series A Debentures to be redeemed (i) by lot; (ii) pro rata; or (iii) by another method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. The Company may not redeem less than all of the outstanding Series A Debentures if the Accreted Principal Amount has been accelerated and such acceleration has not been rescinded.
     Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Series A Debentures to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Series A Debentures (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue and principal will cease to accrete on such Series A Debentures or portions thereof. Series A Debentures in denominations larger than $1,000 Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000.
     In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount of all of the Series A Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. An "event of default" with respect to the Series A Debentures, means any of the following:
     If an event of default under the Indenture occurs and continues with respect to the Series A Debentures, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Series A Debentures may declare the entire principal of and all accrued but unpaid interest on the outstanding Series A Debentures to be due and payable immediately. If such declaration occurs, the holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Series A Debentures can, subject to certain conditions, rescind the declaration.
     The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Series A Debentures may, on behalf of all holders of the outstanding Series A Debentures, waive any past default with respect to the Series A Debentures, except:
 
     The holders of a majority in principal amount of the Series A Debentures shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee under the Indenture.
     The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Series A Debentures; provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the Holder of each Series A Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Series A Debentures, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Series A Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Series A Debentures, to waive a default or Event of Default with respect to the Series A Debentures, and its consequences, except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Series A Debentures or a default in respect of a provision that under Article IX of the Base Indenture cannot be amended without the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Series A Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Series A Debenture and of any Series A Debenture issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise) irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Series A Debenture.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series A Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Series A Debenture at the time and place and at the rate and in the money herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Series A Debenture is transferable by the registered Holder hereof on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Series A Debenture for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in The City of New York and State of New York accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Series A Debentures of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto.
     Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Series A Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and the Security Registrar may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof (whether or not this Series A Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Series A Debenture, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
 
     The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture.
     The Series A Debentures are issuable only in registered form without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Series A Debentures so issued are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Series A Debentures of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     All terms used in this Series A Debenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     This Series A Debenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Series A Debenture to:
agent to transfer this Series A Debenture on the books of the Security Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
     Signatures must be guaranteed by an "" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
eligible guarantor institution
STAMP
signature guarantee program
 
The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made:

August 12, 2008
The Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule I
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of July 11, 2008 (the ""), among MetLife Inc., a Delaware Corporation, the Purchase Contract Agent and Banc of America Securities LLC (together with the institutions appointed as Remarketing Agents pursuant to Section 8 thereof, the "") in connection with the remarketing of the securities specified in Schedule II hereto (the "").
Remarketing Agreement
Remarketing Agents
Remarketed Securities
      Each of the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and shall be deemed to be a part of this Pricing Agreement (this "") to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein; and each of the representations and warranties set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of this Agreement and the Closing Settlement Date, except that each representation and warranty which refers to the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus Supplement in Section 2 of the Remarketing Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation or warranty as of the date of the Remarketing Agreement in relation to the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus Supplement (as therein defined) and also a representation and warranty as of the date of this Agreement in relation to the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as amended or supplemented relating to the Remarketed Securities which are the subject of this Agreement. Each reference to the Remarketing Agents herein and in the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement so incorporated by reference shall be deemed to refer to you. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Remarketing Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Agreement
      An amendment to the Registration Statement, or a supplement to the Pricing Prospectus, as the case may be, relating to the Remarketed Securities, in the form heretofore delivered to you is now proposed to be filed with the Commission.
     Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Remarketing Agreement incorporated herein by reference, the Company and the Remarketing Agents agree that: (i) final terms of the Remarketed Securities shall be as specified in Annex A hereto; (ii) pursuant to Section 1(j) of the Remarketing Agreement, the remarketing fee shall be 35 basis points (0.35%) and (iii) "Applicable Time" means 4:15 P.M. (Eastern Time) on August 12, 2008.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us counterparts hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you, this letter and such acceptance hereof, including the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement among each of the Remarketing Agents, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
Accepted as of the date hereof:
PNC CAPITAL MARKETS LLC
Accepted as of the date hereof:
HSBC SECURITIES (USA) INC.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
GREENWICH CAPITAL MARKETS, INC.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
ING FINANCIAL MARKETS LLC
Accepted as of the date hereof:
RBC CAPITAL MARKETS CORPORATION
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
STANDARD CHARTERED BANK
Accepted as of the date hereof:
BLAYLOCK ROBERT VAN, LLC
Accepted as of the date hereof:
CABRERA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
Accepted as of the date hereof:
CASTLEOAK SECURITIES, L.P.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
GUZMAN & COMPANY
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
SAMUEL A. RAMIREZ & COMPANY, INC.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP, L.P.
 
 
Filed pursuant to Rule 433 August 12, 2008
Relating to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated August 11, 2008 to Prospectus Dated November 6, 2007 Registration Statement No. 333-147180
 
All terms used and not otherwise defined in this term sheet have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the preliminary prospectus supplement.
The Issuer has filed a registration statement, including a prospectus, and preliminary prospectus supplement, with the SEC for the remarketing to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and this remarketing. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the Issuer, any Remarketing Agent participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or or by calling Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-227-2275, extension 2663.
www.sec.gov
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
Any disclaimer or other notice that may appear below is not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimer or notice was automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent by Bloomberg or another email system.


